BI Viewer  Guide
9.2.0  Release

Copyright  © 2025  OneStream  Software  LLC.  All rights  reserved.
All trademarks,  logos,  and brand  names  used  on this website  are the property  of their respective  
owners.  This document  and its contents  are the exclusive  property  of OneStream  Software  LLC 
and are protected  under  international  intellectual  property  laws.  Any reproduction,  modification,  
distribution  or public  display  of this documentation,  in whole  or part, without  written  prior consent  
from OneStream  Software  LLC is strictly  prohibited.
Table  of Contents
Introduction 1
BI Dashboard  Viewer 2
Master  Filtering 2
Master  Filtering  Modes 3
Drill-Down 3
Dashboard  Parameters  Requesting  Parameter  Values 4
BI Viewer  Tabs 6
BI Designer 6
Data  Source 9
Data  Items  Pane 11
Component  Properties 13
Parameter  Name  Value  Pairs  (Inbound  Parameter) 13
Action  Name  Value  Pairs  (Outbound  Parameter)/  Bound  
Parameter 20
BIViewer Guide iTable ofContents
Show  Filter  Panel  Mode 22
Data  Adapters 23
Creating  Dashboards  with BI Viewer 24
Adding  Dashboard  Items 25
Binding  Dashboard  Items  to Data 27
Binding  Concepts 27
Data  Source  Browser 29
Data  Items  Pane 31
Create  Binding 33
Modify  Binding 34
Clear  Binding 35
Working  with Data 36
Filter  Editor 36
Creating  Calculated  Fields 41
Editing  a Calculated  Field 44
Data  Processing  Errors 45
BIViewer Guide iiTable ofContents
BI Dashboard  Items  Layout 46
Layout  Concepts 46
Dashboard  Title 47
Dashboard  Item Caption 48
Inspect  Data 49
Item Resizing 51
Item Positioning 52
Designing  Dashboard  Items 53
Chart 55
Providing  Data 57
Series 60
Interactivity 84
Scatter  Chart 102
Providing  Data 104
Interactivity 106
Coloring 109
BIViewer Guide iiiTable ofContents
Grid 117
Providing  Data 117
Columns 122
Sparkline  Column 130
Interactivity 132
Conditional  Formatting 136
Totals 139
Layout 144
Style 147
Pies 149
Providing  Data 150
Interactivity 153
Coloring 159
Cards 166
Providing  Data 168
Layout 170
BIViewer Guide ivTable ofContents
Delta 176
Sparkline 180
Formatting 183
Interactivity 185
Cards  Arrangement 187
Gauges 191
Providing  Data 192
Delta 194
Interactivity 201
Layout 203
Pivot 208
Providing  Data 208
Interactivity 210
Conditional  Formatting 211
Create  a Format  Rule 211
Edit a Format  Rule 213
BIViewer Guide vTable ofContents
Layout 214
Choropleth  Map 221
Providing  Maps 224
Providing  Data 228
Map Coloring 230
Delta 233
Map Navigation 236
Interactivity 237
Labels 238
Legend 240
Geo Point  Maps 242
Map Zooming  and Scrolling 244
Map Types  Overview 245
Providing  Maps 247
Geo Point  Map 249
Providing  Data 250
BIViewer Guide viTable ofContents
Interactivity 251
Bubble  Map 253
Providing  Data 253
Coloring 255
Legends 257
Pie Map 260
Providing  Data 260
Pie Options 262
Coloring 263
Legends 264
Clustering 266
Interactivity 268
Labels 269
Map Navigation 270
Range  Filter 272
Providing  Data 272
BIViewer Guide viiTable ofContents
Series 273
Interactivity 275
Coloring 282
Interactivity 288
Master  Filtering 288
Image  Settings 289
Text Box 292
Providing  Data 293
Interactivity 296
Image 298
Text Box 299
Treemap 300
Providing  Data 301
Layout 303
Grouping 305
Coloring 307
BIViewer Guide viiiTable ofContents
Labels 308
Filter  Elements 310
Filter  Elements  Overview 310
Combo  Box 310
List Box 311
Tree View 312
Providing  Data 313
Interactivity 314
Dashboard  Item Group 317
Create  a Group 317
Interactivity 318
Data  Shaping 318
Interactivity 344
Converting  Dashboard  Items 350
Appearance  Customization 352
Conditional  Formatting 352
BIViewer Guide ixTable ofContents
Conditional  Formatting  Overview 353
Create  a Format  Rule 355
Edit a Format  Rule 359
Value 361
Top-Bottom 365
Average 366
Icon Ranges 368
Color  Ranges 371
Gradient  Ranges 375
A Date  Occurring 379
Expression 383
Bar 384
Bar Color  Ranges 387
Bar Gradient  Ranges 390
Coloring 394
Coloring  Concepts 394
BIViewer Guide xTable ofContents
Customizing  a Color  Scheme 398
Data  Analysis 405
Aggregations 405
Summary  Level  Aggregations 405
Intermediate  Level  Aggregations 407
Window  Calculations 418
Dashboard  Item Window  Definition 421
Specific  Window  Definition 424
Creating  Window  Calculations 425
Calculation  Functions  Reference 437
Window  Calculation  Limitations 446
Using  Dashboard  Parameters 447
Creating  Parameters 447
Passing  Parameter  Values 452
Requesting  Parameter  Values 455
BIViewer Guide xiTable ofContents
Printing  and Exporting 457
Printing  and Exporting  Dashboards 457
Printing  and Exporting  Dashboard  Items 458
Print Preview 459
Specific  Options 459
Export  Data 460
Group  Data 462
Export  to PDF 465
Export  to Image 466
Export  to Excel 467
Rename  Table  Connections 469
BIViewer Guide xiiTable ofContents
Introduction
The purpose  of the OneStream  BI Dashboard  Design  and Reference  Guide  is to provide  
clarification,  tips, best practices,  and configurations  for all implementers,  administrators,  and end 
users.
The OneStream  BI Dashboard  Design  Guide  is a collection  of smaller  guides  and was created  to 
enhance  the OneStream  experience  by providing  in-depth  explanations  of specific  functions,  
comprehensive  reporting,  and overall  usage  which  can be applied  to any application.  It is an 
explanation  of all properties,  fields,  and options  found  in OneStream.  The Reference  Guide  is 
broken  into four sub sections: Application,  System,  OnePlace,  and Excel  Add- in.
BIViewer Guide 1Introduction
BI Dashboard  Viewer
The BI Dashboard  Viewer  provides  the capability  to display  dashboards  at runtime.
Master  Filtering
The dashboard  allows  you to use any data- aware  dashboard  item as a filter for the entire  
dashboard  (Master  Filter).  You can select  elements  in a master  filter item (chart  bars,  pie 
segments,  grid records,  etc.) to filter data in the rest of the dashboard  by the selected  values.
BIViewer Guide 2BIDashboard Viewer
Master  Filtering  Modes
The master  filter item supports  two selection  modes:
Multiple : Allows  you to select  multiple  elements  in the master  filter item.  To clear  the selection  in 
the master  filter item,  use the Clear  Master  Filter button  in the dashboard  item's  caption.
Single : Allows  you to select  only one element  in the master  filter item.  When  this mode  is enabled,  
the default  selection  will be set to a master  filter element.  You can change  this selection,  but 
cannot  clear  it. To learn  how to filter dashboard  data via a specific  dashboard  item,  refer to the 
documentation  for this item in the Dashboard  Items  section.
Drill- Down
Dashboard  provides  the drill-down  feature,  which  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data 
displayed  in a dashboard  item.  This feature  allows  you to drill down  to display  the details,  or drill 
up to view more  general  information.  
BIViewer Guide 3BIDashboard Viewer
To return  to the previous  detail  level,  use the  
 Drill Up button  in the dashboard  item's  caption,  
or the corresponding  command  in the context  menu.
To learn  how to drill down  using  a particular  dashboard  item,  refer to the documentation  for this 
item in the Dashboard  Items  topic.  
Dashboard  Parameters  Requesting  
Parameter  Values
The Dashboard  Viewer  provides  a built- in Dashboard  Parameters  dialog,  which  allows  you to 
change  dashboard  parameter  values.  This dialog  can be used  to apply  filtering  to dashboard  data.
BIViewer Guide 4BIDashboard Viewer
 
To invoke  the dashboard  parameters,  click the 
Parameters button  in the dashboard  title. 
Select  the required  parameter  values  and click the Submit  button  to apply  the changes.  To reset  
changes  to the default  values,  click the Reset  button.
BIViewer Guide 5BIDashboard Viewer
BI Viewer  Tabs
The BI Viewer  component  is comprised  of three  main  tabs:  BI designer,  component  properties,  
and data adapters.
BI Designer
Once  the BI Designer  is selected  the user is presented  with the controls  that provides  the 
capability  to build  a functional  dashboard.  The dashboard  provides  elements  that display  visual  or 
textual  information  in a dashboard  known  as dashboard  items.  These  Dashboard  items  can be 
divided  into the following  groups:  data visualization  items,  filter elements  and dashboard  item 
containers.  To visualize  data within  dashboard  items,  you need  to first establish  a connection  to a 
data source  as mentioned  above.  The data source  collects  the data adapter  data and passes  it to 
the dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 6BIViewer Tabs
The BI Designer  layout  provides  an intuitive  user interface  that facilitates  data binding,  shaping,  
and layout  design.  Many  of these  normally  complex  tasks  can be accomplished  with a simple  
drag- and-drop operation,  allowing  you to start creating  dashboards  immediately.  This BI Designer  
contains  rich, intuitive  graphics  and tools  that will assist  in analyzing  data with functionality  that 
requires  little to no coding.  Users  would  be able to combine  multiple  views  of data to get better  
insight  to their information,  perform  ad hoc analyses  and quickly  publish  their dashboard  to share  
it within  the application.
Features  of this solution  assist  with Ad Hoc Reports,  Dashboard  Data  Analysis,  Data  
Visualization,  Key Performance  Indicators,  Drill down,  filters  and interact  with OneStream  data 
and other  sources  of data.
BIViewer Guide 7BIViewer Tabs
BIViewer Guide 8BIViewer Tabs
Data  Source
The Data  Source  section  allows  you to navigate  through  dashboard  data provided  from the Data  
Adapter.  It displays  the data source  structure  and allows  you to bind dashboard  items  to the 
required  data source  fields  using  drag- and-drop functionality.  The data source  section  also 
enables  you to manage  calculated  fields.
The data source  browser  contains  the following  elements:
Data  Source  Drop- Down  List Allows  you to select  the required  data source  and its required  data 
member.  The command  buttons  pictured  below  are available  to sort or group  fields  in the browser.
BIViewer Guide 9BIViewer Tabs
BIViewer Guide 10BIViewer Tabs
The Field  List displays  data source  fields.  You can drag these  fields  to the data item placeholders  
to specify  data binding.  Data  source  data field types  define  the field type of each  field.
Icon Description
Boolean
Byte
Date- time
Numeric
String
 
Calculated  Field
Data  Items  Pane
The Data  Items  pane  is placed  side- by-side with the data source  browser  and allows  you to create  
and modify  data binding  using  drag- and-drop operations.
BIViewer Guide 11BIViewer Tabs
BIViewer Guide 12BIViewer Tabs
The data items  pane  can contain  the following  elements:
Data  Item placeholder : Creates  data binding  using  drag- and-drop operations.
Data  Item: Identifies  data binding  by mapping  to a specified  data source  field.  Each  data item has 
the Data  Item menu  button,  used  to invoke  a menu  that allows  you to perform  various  data 
shaping  operations.
Data  Section : Corresponds  to a specified  dashboard  item area or element.
Data  Item Container : Provides  data item sets (e.g.,  for calculating  the difference  between  two 
measures).  Data  item containers  have  options  buttons  that allow  you to change  specific  
dashboard  item settings.
Sort indicator : Shows  the current  sort order  for the data item.
Coloring  indicator : Indicates  whether  coloring  by hue is enabled  for the data item.
Component  Properties
The BI Designer  has its own section  for parameters.  These  parameters  can be used  to filter on 
and drive  the data shown  in BI viewer  components  (inbound  parameter).  There  is also the ability  
for the BI viewer  to pass  values  from the BI viewer  components  to other  dashboard  components  
(outbound  parameters)  outside  of the BI viewer.
Parameter  Name  Value  Pairs  (Inbound  Parameter)
The Parameter  Name  Value  Pairs  property  is used  to assign  a BI viewer  parameter  to some  
value.  This value  can be a bound  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 13BIViewer Tabs
 
When  the BI Designer  is opened  or the BI viewer  component  is run inside  a dashboard,  the 
specified  BI viewer  parameter  in the Parameter  Name  Value  Pairs  property  will be set to the 
specified  value  (|!ChosenAccount!|)  which  in this case  is set in the Cube  View.  If that value  is a 
bound  parameter,  the value  will be resolved  before  setting  the BI Viewer  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 14BIViewer Tabs
|!ChosenAccount!|  is a dashboard  bound  parameter.  In this case  the value  hasn’t  been  resolved  
yet, so its value  is prompted  for.
BIViewer Guide 15BIViewer Tabs
Once  the value  (54400)  is entered  at prompt  time,  the component  (pie chart)  will be displayed  
representing  the value.
BIViewer Guide 16BIViewer Tabs
In the upper- right corner  of the toolbar  inside  the BI Designer  there  is a Parameters  button.  
Clicking  it will open  the parameters  dialog  which  is used  to create  BI viewer  parameters.  Each  
parameter  has its own settings  for what  values  they can be set to and in what  format.
BIViewer Guide 17BIViewer Tabs
In this case  notice  how the value  property  was set to 54400.  This is due to the Parameter  Name  
Value  Pairs  property  set earlier  (pAccount=|!ChosenAccount!|).  The value  of this BI viewer  
parameter  called  pAccount  was assigned  to the value  of the OneStream  bound  parameter  
|!ChosenAccount!|.
BIViewer Guide 18BIViewer Tabs
At runtime,  the Pie Charts  created  in the BI Viewer  will utilize  the selected  items  
(|!ChosenAccount!|  from the Cube  View  to render  its view.
BIViewer Guide 19BIViewer Tabs
Action  Name  Value  Pairs  (Outbound  Parameter)/  
Bound  Parameter
The BI Designer  has its own section  for parameters.  These  parameters  can be used  to filter the BI 
viewer  and to pass  values  from the BI viewer  components  to other  dashboard  components  
(outbound  parameters)  outside  of the BI viewer.
The Action  Name  Value  Pairs  property  is used  to assign  a BI viewer  parameter  to some  value.  
This value  can be a bound  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 20BIViewer Tabs
In the screenshot  above,  the Action  Name  Value  Pairs  property  of Actual  vs Budget=Account  is 
used  to assign  that BI viewer  value  to a bound  parameter  which  is assigned  AccountNumber.
In the screenshot  below,  the grid component  in the BI viewer  is the source  of the Action  Name  
Value  Pairs  property  that is being  used  to assign  a BI viewer  parameter  to a bound  parameter.
The name  of the grid component  is Actual  vs Budget  and this along  with the column  Account  is the 
source  of the Action  Name  Value  Pairs  property  used  in the example  above.  The result  is that 
anytime  an account  (or multiple  accounts  -if setup)  is selected  at runtime,  that selected  account  
value (s) will be passed  to the designated  bound  parameter  (AccountNumber).
If the row that contains  52000  – Promotions  is selected,  the value  of the account  from that row will 
be assigned  to the bound  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 21BIViewer Tabs
Show  Filter  Panel  Mode
The Show  Filter  Panel  Mode  property  allows  you to turn on and off filter editors  within  the BI 
Viewer  grids.  You must  specify  the mode  controlling  the visibility  of all grid component's  bottom  
filter panel.
The Show  Filter  Panel  Mode  contains  the following  values:
(Use  Default):  This value  will display  when  Show  Filter  Panel  Mode  has not been  set up. You 
must  change  this property  to display  filter editors.
Dynamic:  The filter panel  is shown  when  filtering  is applied  to the grid, meaning  the filter isn’t 
always  on or off. The bottom  panel  filter of the grid is only on if any column  has filtering  applied.  It 
will only pop up after filtering  has been  applied  to the grid.
Show  Always:  The filter panel  is always  shown.
Never:  The filter panel  is always  hidden.
BIViewer Guide 22BIViewer Tabs
Data  Adapters
Data  adapters  specify  the kind of data used  within  a dashboard.  Once  the data adapter  is 
configured  and pointing  to the desired  data,  attach  it to a dashboard  component  in order  to display  
it on a dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 23BIViewer Tabs
Creating  Dashboards  with BI 
Viewer
The following  topics  will guide  you through  the process  of creating  a dashboard.
When  you run an application  containing  the dashboard  designer,  it already  contains  an empty  
dashboard.  To create  a new dashboard,  click the New button  in the ribbon  Home  tab.
 1. Go to Application  tab and select  Workspaces .
 2. Select  Components  (in the Workspace  Maintenance  Unit),  then select  Create  Dashboard  
Component .
 3. Select  BI Viewer .
BIViewer Guide 24Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
 4. Enter  a name:  biv2_ SalesByRegionExample,  description:  SalesAnalysisByRegion  and 
select  Save .
Adding  Dashboard  Items
To create  a dashboard  item in the BI Designer,  click the corresponding  button  in the Home  ribbon  
tab.
This creates  an empty  dashboard  item and displays  the required  data sections  for binding  this 
item to data (for instance,  the image  below  displays  the Pivot  dashboard  item and corresponding  
data sections).
BIViewer Guide 25Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Perform  the following  steps  to design  a dashboard  item:
 lBind the dashboard  item to data.
 lPerform  the required  data shaping  operations  (such  as grouping,  sorting  and filtering).  Use 
the interactivity  features  to enable  interaction  between  various  dashboard  items.
 lAdjust  the dashboard  item's  position  and size and specify  the dashboard  item caption  
settings.
 lSpecify  specific  dashboard  item settings  based  on its type.  To learn  more,  see Designing  
Dashboard  Items
After  you have  created  and designed  the dashboard  item,  you can create  an exact  copy.  To do 
this, click the Duplicate  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab, or use the dashboard  item's  context  menu.  
To remove  the dashboard  item from the dashboard,  use the delete  button  or the corresponding  
item in the context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 26Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Binding  Dashboard  Items  to Data
This topic  explains  how to bind the newly  created  dashboard  item to data source  fields,  to display  
data.
Binding  Concepts
To bind dashboard  items  to data in the dashboard  designer,  the Data  Items  pane  is used.
BIViewer Guide 27Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Each  dashboard  item type has a specific  set of data sections,  such  as values,  arguments  and 
series  in the chart,  columns  and sparklines  in the grid, and values,  columns  and rows  in the pivot  
grid. Each  data section  corresponds  to a particular  dashboard  item area or element  and should  be 
mapped  to data to be displayed  within  this area/  element.
Mapping  is performed  using  data items  - objects  that are used  to bind a dashboard  item to data 
source  fields.  Data  items  are used  to link the dashboard  item to the required  data source  fields  
and thus,  visualize  data within  the dashboard  item.
Another  key concept  in data binding  is the data item container,  which  represents  a set of data 
items.  It can contain  either  a single  data item or multiple  data items,  and allows  you to specify  
various  options  related  to how a specific  dashboard  item visualizes  data.
The data item can process  data in two ways  - as dimensions  or measures.  This depends  on the 
data section  to which  the data item is assigned,  and the type of the data item container.
These  values  can be of any type - string,  date- time or numeric.  In any case,  the dashboard  does  
not summarize  the dimension  values,  but groups  identical  values.  You can perform  grouping,  
sorting,  or display  the top values  for the dimension  values.  You can also customize  data format  
settings  for numeric  and date- time values.  To access  the data shaping  settings,  use the data 
item's  menu  button.
BIViewer Guide 28Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
For instance,  dimensions  are used  to provide  data for the chart  argument  axis, pivot  grid column  
and row headers.
These  values  can be of any type - numeric,  date- time or string.  In any case,  the dashboard  will 
calculate  an appropriate  summary  function  against  measure  values.  You can also customize  the 
data format  settings  that affect  how summary  values  are displayed.  To access  these  settings,  use 
the data item's  menu  button.
For example,  measures  are used  to provide  data for the chart's  Y-axis, and to calculate  pivot  cell 
values.
Specific  data sections  display  options  buttons  for each  data item container.  Use these  buttons  to 
invoke  a dialog  that allows  you to specify  the settings  of this data item container.  These  settings  
affect  how a particular  dashboard  item's  area/element  displays  the provided  data.
Data  Source  Browser
The Data  Source  Browser  allows  you to navigate  through  dashboard  data sources.  It displays  the 
data source  structure  and allows  you to bind dashboard  items  to the required  data source  fields  
using  drag- and-drop operations.  The Data  Source  Browser  also enables  you to manage  
calculated  fields.
BIViewer Guide 29Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
The Data  Source  Browser  contains  the following  elements:
 lData  Source  Drop- Down  List: Allows  you to select  the required  data source.
 lQuery/Data  Member  Drop- Down  List: Allows  you to select  the required  query  or data 
member.
 lField  List: Displays  data source  fields.  You can drag these  fields  to the data item 
placeholders  to specify  data binding.
The data source  browser  identifies  the following  data field types:
BIViewer Guide 30Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Icon Description
Boolean
Byte
Date- time
Numeric
String
 
Calculated  Field
Data  Items  Pane
The data items  pane  is placed  side- by-side with the data source  browser  and allows  you to create  
and modify  data binding  using  drag- and-drop operations.
BIViewer Guide 31Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
The data items  pane  can contain  the following  elements:
 lData  Item Placeholder : Used  to create  a data binding  using  drag- and-drop operations.
 l Data  Item: Identifies  a data binding  by mapping  to a particular  data source  field.  Each  data 
item has the Data  Item menu  button,  used  to invoke  a menu  that allows  you to perform  
various  data shaping  operations.
 lData  Section : Corresponds  to a dashboard  item area or element.
 lData  Item Container : Used  to provide  data item sets (e.g.,  for calculating  the difference  
between  two measures).  Data  item containers  have  Options  buttons  that allow  you to 
change  specific  dashboard  item settings  (e.g.,  to switch  between  chart  series  types  or grid 
column  types).
BIViewer Guide 32Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
 lSort Indicator : Shows  the current  sort order  for the data item.
 lColoring  Indicator : Indicates  whether  coloring  by hue is enabled  for the data item.
Specific  dashboard  items  have  command  buttons  that allow  you to perform  various  operations,  for 
instance,  to add a new pane  to the chart  dashboard  item.
Create  Binding
The data items  pane  displays  data sections  of the selected  dashboard  item.  It can be used  to add, 
rearrange  or remove  data items.
To bind a dashboard  item to data,  select  the dashboard  item.  Then  choose  the required  data field 
from the data source  browser  and drop it onto the appropriate  section  in the data items  pane.
You can remove  the data item by dragging  it outside  the data items  pane.
To learn  how to bind a specific  dashboard  item to data,  see the Providing  Data  topic  for the 
required  dashboard  item.
To rename  the data item,  click its menu  button  and select  Rename .
BIViewer Guide 33Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Modify  Binding
You can modify  data binding  by dragging  data item containers  within  a data section.  To do this, 
drag the data item container  to the required  position.
BIViewer Guide 34Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
You can also modify  data binding  by dragging  data items  within  the data items  pane.  This action  
has the following  specifics:
 lIf you drag the data item to a new position,  the settings  specified  for the corresponding  data 
item container  will be restored  to the default  values.
 lIf you drag the data item to an existing  data item placeholder,  the settings  of the 
corresponding  data item container  will be applied.
Clear  Binding
To remove  all data items  for a selected  dashboard  item,  use the Remove  Data  Items  button  in the 
Home  ribbon  tab.
You can also do this via the dashboard  item's  context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 35Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Working  with Data
The topics  in this section  describe  how to work  with data in a connected  data source.  This section  
contains  the following  topics:
 lFilter  Queries
 lPass  Query  Parameters  Stored  Procedures  Preview  Data
 lCreating  Calculated  Fields
Filter  Editor
Filtering  can be applied  to either  underlying  or aggregated  data.
To filter data,  click the Edit Filter  button  in the data ribbon  tab, or right- click in dashboard  item to 
bring  up the filter editor  dialog,  which  allows  you to build  filter criteria.
BIViewer Guide 36Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
The filter tab allows  you to filter underlying  data,  while  the group  filter tab provides  the capability  to 
filter data aggregated  on the server  side.  In the Filter  Editor,  you can compare  a field value  with 
the following  objects:
 lA static  value  (represented  by the 
 icon):  Click  this button  to switch  to the next item 
mode  ("another  field value")  to compare  the field value  with another  field value.
 lAn other  field value  (represented  by the 
 icon):  Click  this button  to switch  to the next item 
mode  (parameter  value)  to compare  the field value  with a parameter  value.
BIViewer Guide 37Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
 lA parameter  value  (represented  by the 
 icon):  Click  this button  to switch  back  to the 
initial  mode  ("static  value")  to compare  the field value  with a static  value.
When  setting  a field on the Show  Filter  Panel  Mode  property,  the filter editors  will be displayed  as 
it is set.
Example:  The component  below  has a show  filter panel  mode  
field set to Dynamic.  In the BI Designer  tab, "Grid  1" will not 
have  a checkbox  filter button  listed  at the bottom- left of the 
section.
See Show  Filter  Panel  Mode  for more  information.
You can pass  the query  parameter  to the filter string.  To do this, click the 
 button,  then click the 
 button  and finally  click <select  a parameter>.
BIViewer Guide 38Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
In the popup  menu,  you can choose  from the following  options:
Add Query  Parameter : Allows  you to create  a new query  parameter.  In the corresponding  dialog,  
you can specify  a parameter's  name,  type,  and value.  If the current  query  already  contains  query  
parameters,  they will be displayed  within  the popup  menu.
BIViewer Guide 39Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Bind  To: Allows  you to pass  a dashboard  parameter  to a filter string.  You can choose  from the list 
of predefined  dashboard  parameters  or create  a new dashboard  parameter  by selecting  Add 
Dashboard  Parameter.  If you selected  Add Dashboard  Parameter,  the following  dialog  will be 
invoked.
BIViewer Guide 40Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
 
Creating  Calculated  Fields
The dashboard  designer  provides  the capability  to create  calculated  fields  that allow  you to apply  
complex  expressions  to data fields  that are obtained  from the dashboard's  data source.  You can 
use these  fields  in data visualizations  as regular  data source  fields.  After  you have  created  a data 
source,  you can add a new calculated  field based  on the existing  data source  fields.
To create  a calculated  field,  select  the required  data source  (and the required  query/data  member,  
if applicable)  in the data source  browser  and click the Add Calculated  Field  button  in the ribbon's  
data source  tab, or right- click the field list and select  Add Calculated  Field  in the context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 41Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
This prompts  the expression  editor  dialog,  which  allows  you to specify  an expression  that will be 
used  to obtain  calculated  field values.  Here,  you can construct  the required  expression.
You can use the following  elements  in expressions:
 lFunctions
 lOperators
 lColumns
BIViewer Guide 42Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
 lConstants
 lParameters
After  the expression  has been  specified,  click OK. This displays  a new calculated  field in the data 
source  structure.  Now you can specify  the required  calculated  field type.
BIViewer Guide 43Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Editing  a Calculated  Field
To edit a calculated  field,  use its context  menu.
This menu  contains  the following  items:
 lEdit Expression : Prompts  the expression  editor  dialog,  which  allows  you to change  an 
expression  for an existing  calculated  field.
 lField  Type : Specifies  the type of the calculated  field.
 lRename : Changes  the calculated  field name.
 lDelete : Removes  the existing  calculated  field from the data source.
 
BIViewer Guide 44Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
Data  Processing  Errors
The Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to display  errors  that occurred  during  data 
processing  operations  (such  as changing  measure  summary  types,  calculation  errors,  etc.).  For 
instance,  the grid below  shows  an error  when  the summary  type of the extended  price  measure  is 
set to median  in server  mode.
To see the error  message,  hover  the mouse  pointer  over the 
 icon.
BIViewer Guide 45Creating Dashboards with BIViewer
BI Dashboard  Items  Layout
The BI Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to arrange  and resize  dashboard  items  and 
groups  in various  ways,  using  simple  drag- and-drop operations.
Layout  Concepts
The dashboard  arranges  dashboard  items  and groups  using  layout  items  and layout  groups.  They  
are special  containers  that are used  to present  a dashboard  layout  as a hierarchical  structure.
 lA layout  item is used  as a container  that displays  an individual  dashboard  item.
 lA layout  group  is used  as a container  that is used  to arrange  layout  items  (or other  layout  
groups)  either  horizontally  or vertically.  At the same  time,  layout  groups  are used  as 
containers  that display  dashboard  item groups.
Thus,  a dashboard  layout  is hierarchically  arranged  from the root layout  group  to bottommost  
layout  items,  which  display  individual  dashboard  items.
BIViewer Guide 46BIDashboard Items Layout
Dashboard  Title
The Dashboard  Title is located  at the top of the Dashboard.  The dashboard  title can contain  text 
or image  content,  elements  selected  in the master  filter item and command  buttons.
When  you hover  over the filter icon,  all master  filters  applied  to the dashboard  are displayed  in the 
invoked  pop-up.
The dashboard  title can contain  the following  command  buttons:
BIViewer Guide 47BIDashboard Items Layout
 lExport  To button  (the 
icon)  allows  you to print/export  the dashboard.  To learn  more  
about  printing  and exporting,  see the Printing  and Exporting  topic.
 lParameters  button  (the 
icon)  allows  you to modify  dashboard  parameter  values.  To 
learn  how to modify  dashboard  parameter  values,  see the Requesting  Parameter  Values  
topic.
Dashboard  Item Caption
Each  dashboard  item has a caption  that is displayed  at the top of this item.  The caption  contains  
static  text along  with other  information,  as well as command  buttons.
The caption  of the Dashboard  item contains  the following  information  and buttons,  depending  on 
the dashboard  item type:
BIViewer Guide 48BIDashboard Items Layout
 lDashboard  Item Name : Represents  the static  text within  a dashboard  item's  caption
 lData  Item Container  Name : Represents  the name  of the data item container
 lDrill- Down  Value : Shows  value (s) from the current  drill-down  hierarchy
 lExport  To Button : Allows  you to print or export  a dashboard  item
 lValues  Button : Invokes  a drop- down  menu  that allows  you to switch  between  provided  
values  (in the pie, card,  gauge  and map dashboard  items)
 lClear  Master  Filter  Button : Allows  you to reset  filtering  when  a dashboard  item acts as the 
Master  Filter
 lDrill Up Button : Allows  you to return  to the previous  detail  level when  the drill-down  
capability  is enabled  for this item
Inspect  Data
You can review  your underlying  data from your visualization  in an aggregated  or raw data view 
and create  quick  reports  which  can be exported  to multiple  formats.
1. Click  Inspect  Data  from a Dashboard  or from the BI Designer  to open  the Data  Inspector  
window.
BIViewer Guide 49BIDashboard Items Layout
2. Click  Aggregated  to review  the data that is retrieved  from the dashboard  item's  data.
3. Click  Raw to review  the data from the dashboard  item's  underlying  data.
BIViewer Guide 50BIDashboard Items Layout
4. You can also right- click for the Inspect  Data  menu  option.
Item Resizing
You can resize  individual  items/groups  of items  by dragging  their edges.
BIViewer Guide 51BIDashboard Items Layout
By default,  a 2x2 layout  group  of dashboard  items  is horizontally  oriented  and contains  two child 
layout  groups.  This arranges  dashboard  items  in two 'columns'  and allows  you to set a different  
height  for items  in different  columns.  You can switch  the orientation  of the 2x2 group  to Vertical  
using  the indicator  at the group  intersection.
Item Positioning
You can change  the position  of a dashboard  item by using  drag- and-drop and one of the following  
approaches:
 lIf the caption  of the dashboard  item is visible,  click it and hold down  the left mouse  button  
while  dragging  the item.
 lIf the caption  of the dashboard  item is not visible,  click the icon in the top left corner,  and 
hold down  the left mouse  button  while  dragging  the item.
BIViewer Guide 52BIDashboard Items Layout
Designing  Dashboard  Items
The BI Dashboard  provides  several  visualization  elements  designed  to present  visual  or textual  
information  in a dashboard.  
This section  describes  the available  dashboard  items:  
 lChart
 lScatter  Chart
 lGrid
 lPies
 lCards
 lGauges
 lPivot
 lChoropleth  Map
 lGeo Point  Maps
 lRange  Filter
 lImages  
 lText Box
 lTreemap
 lFilter  Elements
BIViewer Guide 53Designing Dashboard Items
 lDashboard  Item Group
 lConverting  Dashboard  Items  
BIViewer Guide 54Designing Dashboard Items
Chart
The topics  in this section  describe  the features  available  in the Chart  dashboard  item and provide  
extensive  information  on how to create  and customize  charts  in the Dashboard  Designer.
The Chart  dashboard  item presents  data visually  using  different  types  of series.
BIViewer Guide 55
A series  represents  a grouping  of related  data points.  The most  important  characteristic  of a 
series  is its type,  which  determines  a particular  visual  representation  of data.
The Chart  dashboard  item includes  the following  series  types:
 l
 A Bar series  displays  data as sets of rectangular  bars with lengths  proportional  to the 
values  that they represent.
 l
 Point  and Line series  display  data as standalone  points  or points  joined  by a line.
 l
 An Area  series  displays  data by a line that joins points,  and the shaded  area between  
the line and the argument  axis.
BIViewer Guide 56
 l
 A Range  series  is the area between  two simple  series  displayed  as a shaded  area,  or 
bars that stretch  from a point  in one series  to the corresponding  point  in another  series.
 l
 A Weighted  series  displays  data using  a third dimension,  expressed  by a 
bubble's  size. 
 lFinancial  series  are useful  in ananlyzing  stock  and bond  prices  as well as the behavior  of 
commodities.
The Chart  dashboard  item can display  a tooltip  that shows  information  on a hovered  series  point.
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  To learn  more,  see the Binding  Dashboard  Items  to Data  topic.
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Chart  dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
Binding  to Data  in the Designer  Transposing  Arguments  and Series.
BIViewer Guide 57
Binding  to Data  in the Designer
The image  below  shows  a sample  Chart  dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
To bind the Chart  dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a placeholder  
contained  in one of the available  data sections.  The table  below  lists and describes  the Chart's  
data sections.
 
Section Description
BIViewer Guide 58
Values Contains  Data  Items  against  which  the Y-coordinates  of 
data points  are calculated.  The Options  button  next to the 
Value  data item allows  you to select  the series  type and 
specify  different  options.  Note  that some  types  of series  
accept  several  measures.  To learn  more,  see the 
documentation  for the required  series  type.
Arguments Contains  Data  Items  that provide  values  displayed  along  
the X-axis of the chart.
Series Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to create  
chart  series.
Transposing  Arguments  and Series
The Chart  dashboard  item provides  the capability  to transpose  chart  arguments  and series.  In this 
case,  Data  Items  contained  in the Arguments  section  are moved  to the Series  section,  and vice 
versa.
To transpose  the selected  Chart  dashboard  item,  use the Transpose  button  in the Home  ribbon  
tab.
BIViewer Guide 59
Series
This section  describes  how to select  a desired  series  type in the overview  topic,  and lists the 
variety  of available  series  types.
Series  Overview
The Chart  dashboard  item supports  a variety  of series  types  - from simple  bar and line charts  to 
complex  candle  stick and bubble  graphs.
Series  Types
To switch  between  series  types  in the Dashboard  Designer,  click the Options  button  next to the 
required  data item (or placeholder)  in the Values  section.  Filtering  can be applied  to either  
underlying  or aggregated  data.
In the invoked  Series  Options  dialog,  select  the required  series  type and click OK.
BIViewer Guide 60
You can also do this using  the Series  Type  gallery  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
Series  Options
To manage  common  series  options,  use the Common  Options  tab of the Series  Options  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 61
Plot on secondary  axis: Specifies  whether  or not the secondary  axis is used  to plot the current  
series.  
Ignore  empty  points : Specifies  whether  or not empty  points  are ignored  when  plotting  the 
current  series.  Note  that this option  is in effect  for the Line,  Area,  and Range  Area  series.
Show  point  markers : Specifies  whether  or not to show  point  markers  for the current  series.  Note  
that point  markers  are always  shown  when  Master  Filtering  is enabled  for the Chart  dashboard  
item.  
Series  Point  Labels
The Point  Label  Options  tab of the Series  Options  dialog  allows  you to enable  series  point  labels  
and manage  their settings.
BIViewer Guide 62
Show  point  labels : Specifies  whether  or not to show  point  labels  for the current  series.  
Content : Specifies  the type of content  displayed  within  point  labels.
Overlapping  mode : Specifies  the label  overlap  mode.  This option  is not in effect  when  the 
dashbaord  is displayed  in the Web Viewer.
Orientation : Specifies  the orientation  of point  labels.
Bar options : These  settings  are in effect  for Bar series  only.  
Show  for zero values : Specifies  whether  or not to show  labels  for points  with zero values.  
Position  - Specifies  the position  of point  labels  relative  to bars.
BIViewer Guide 63
Bar Series
Bar series  visualize  data using  rectangular  bars with lengths  proportional  to the values  that they 
represent.  
Bar series  can be used  to compare  values  across  categories.
Stacked  Bar series  show  the contribution  of individual  categories  to the whole.
BIViewer Guide 64
Full-Stacked  Bar series  allow  you to compare  the percentage  that each  value  contributes  to a total 
across  categories.
BIViewer Guide 65
Point  and Line Series
Point  series  visualize  data as a set of individual  numeric  data points.  Line series  are used  to 
connect  numeric  data points  by different  types  of line segments.
The following  types  of Point  and Line series  are available:
 lPoint  Line
 lStacked  Line
 lFull-Stacked  Line Step Line
 lSpline
Point  series  visualize  data as a set of individual  numeric  data points.  
Line Series  Connect  numeric  data points  by straight  line segments.
BIViewer Guide 66
Stacked  Line series  are useful  for showing  the trend  of the percentage  for each  value.
BIViewer Guide 67
Step Line series  use vertical  and horizontal  lines to connect  the numeric  data points  forming  a 
step- like progression.
Spline  series  plot a fitted  curve  through  each  numeric  data point.
BIViewer Guide 68
Area  Series
Area  series  connect  numeric  data points  by different  types  of line segments  and fill the area 
between  the line and X- axis/other  series.
The following  types  of Point  and Line series  are available:
 lArea  
 lStacked  Area
 lFull-Stacked  Area
 lStep Area
 lSpline
 lArea  Stacked
BIViewer Guide 69
 lSpline  Area
 lFull-Stacked  Spline  Area
Area  series  connect  numeric  data points  y straight  line segments  and fill the area between  the line 
and X-axis. 
Stacked  Area  series  can be used  to show  the trend  of the contribution  for each  value.  Stacked  
Area  series  connect  numeric  data points  by straight  line segments  and fill the area between  the 
line and previous  series.
BIViewer Guide 70
Full-Stacked  Area  series  are useful  to show  the trend  of the percentage  for each  value.
BIViewer Guide 71
Step Area  series  use vertical  and horizontal  lines to connect  the numeric  data points  forming  a 
step- like progression  and fill the area between  the line and X-axis
Spline  Area  series  plot a fitted  curve  through  each  numeric  data point  and fill the area between  the 
line and X-axis.
BIViewer Guide 72
Stacked  Area  series  can be used  to show  the trend  of the contribution  for each  value.  Stacked  
Area  series  plot a fitted  curve  through  each  numeric  data point,  and fill the area between  the line 
and previous  series.
BIViewer Guide 73
Full-Stacked  Spline  Area  series  are useful  to show  the trend  of the percentage  for each  value.
BIViewer Guide 74
Range  Series
Range  series  are generally  used  to show  variations  in a specified  time range  like temperature,  
price,  etc. The following  types  of Range  series  are available:
 lRange  Bar
 lRange  Area
A range  series  is a space  between  two simple  series  displayed  as a filled area (Range  Area)  or 
bars that stretch  from a point  in one series  to the corresponding  point  in the other  (Range  Bar).  
Thus,  you need  to provide  two measures  instead  of one to display  a range  series.
Value  1 - a measure  against  which  the first set of values  is calculated.  
Value  2 - a measure  against  which  the second  set of values  is calculated.
When  you select  the Range  Bar or Range  Area  series  type in the Designer,  the Data  Items  area 
displays  two data item placeholders.  Drag  and drop the required  measures  to corresponding  
placeholders.
Range  Bar series  are similar  to Bar Series  except  that they are drawn  between  a range  of values.
BIViewer Guide 75
Range  Area  series  are similar  to Area  Series  except  that their areas  are filled between  a range  of 
values.
BIViewer Guide 76
Weighted  Series
Weighted  series  allow  you to visualize  data in three  dimensions.  The following  types  of Weighted  
series  are available:
 lBubble
Data  points  in a weighted  series  present  the following  two measures.  
Value  - the Y-coordinate  of series  points.
Weight  - the size of series  points.
When  you select  the Bubble  series  type in the Designer,  the data items  area displays  two data 
item placeholders.  Drag  and drop the required  measures  to corresponding  placeholders.
Bubble  series  are similar  to Point  Series  except  that they allow  you to provide  an additional  
measure  whose  values  are expressed  in a bubble  size.
BIViewer Guide 77
Financial  Series
Financial  series  are used  to illustrate  stock  prices.  The following  types  of Financial  series  are 
available.
 lHigh- Low -Close  Stock
 lCandle  Stick
Note  that financial  series  do not support  a standard  coloring  mechanism  used  to color  chart  series  
points.  The Chart  dashboard  item colors  series  points  of financial  series  in the following  way.
Black  if the price  at the end of the previous  period  is lower  than the price  at the end of the current  
period.  
Red if the price  at the end of the previous  period  is larger  than the price  at the end of the current  
period.
BIViewer Guide 78
When  you select  the High- Low- Close  series  type in the Designer,  the Data  Items  area displays  
three  data item placeholders.  High- Low- Close  series  require  three  measures  to be provided.
 lHigh : the maximum  price  within  the specified  period  (the top of the series  point).  
 lLow: the minimum  price  within  the specified  period  (the bottom  of the series  point).  
 lClose : the price  at the end of the specified  period  (the tick mark).
 
BIViewer Guide 79
When  you select  the Stock  series  type in the Designer,  the Data  Items  area displays  four data 
item placeholders.  Stock  series  require  four measures  to be provided.
Open : the price  at the beginning  of the specified  period  (the left tick mark).
High : the maximum  price  within  the specified  period  (the top of the series  point).  
Low : the minimum  price  within  the specified  period  (the bottom  of the series  point).  
Close :  the price  at the end of the specified  period  (the right tick mark).
BIViewer Guide 80
When  you select  the Candle  Stick  series  type in the Designer,  the Data  Items  area displays  four 
data item placeholders.  Candle  Stick  series  require  four measures  to be provided.
Open : the price  at the beginning  of the specified  period.
High : the maximum  price  within  the specified  period  (the upper  shadow  top). 
Low : the minimum  price  within  the specified  period  (the lower  shadow  bottom).  
Close  : the price  at the end of the specified  period.
BIViewer Guide 81
The Chart  dashboard  item can contain  any number  of panes.  Panes  are visual  areas  within  a 
diagram  that display  chart  series.
Each  pane  has its own Y-axis and displays  a specific  set of series.  All panes  in a chart  share  the 
same  X-axis.
BIViewer Guide 82
To add a pane  click the Add Pane  button (the 
  icon)  at the top right of the Data  Items  pane.
Once  a new pane  is added,  the Dashboard  Designer  creates  another  Values  section  in the Data  
Items  pane.
BIViewer Guide 83
Use this section  to provide  Data  Items  that supply  values  to be displayed  in the new pane.
To remove  a pane,  click the Remove  Pane  button  (the 
 icon)  displayed  in the corresponding  
Values  section.
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  the Chart  and other  dashboard  
items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
The Chart  dashboard  item supports  filtering  by argument,  series  or points.
Filtering  by Arguments
When  filtering  by arguments  is enabled,  you can click series  points  to make  other  dashboard  
items  only display  data related  to selected  argument  values.
BIViewer Guide 84
To enable  filtering  by arguments  in the Designer,  set the required  Master  Filter  mode  and click the 
Arguments  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu).
Filtering  by Series
When  filtering  by series  is enabled,  you can click a series  point  to make  other  dashboard  items  
only display  data related  to the selected  series.
BIViewer Guide 85
To enable  filtering  by series  in the Designer,  set the required  Master  Filter  mode  and click the 
Series  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu).
Filtering  by Points
When  filtering  by points  is enabled,  you can click a individual  point  to make  other  dashboard  items  
display  only data related  to the selected  point.
BIViewer Guide 86
To enable  filtering  by points  in the Designer,  set the required  Master  Filter  mode  and click the 
Points  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab.
Reset  Filtering
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  in the chart's  caption  area or the 
corresponding  command  in the chart's  context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 87
Drill- Down
The built- in drill-down  capability  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data displayed  in 
dashboard  items  on the fly. 
The Chart  dashboard  item supports  drill down  on argument  or series  values.
Drill- Down  on an Argument
When  drill down  on arguments  is enabled,  you can click a series  point  to view a detail  chart  for the 
corresponding  argument  value.
When  Filtering  by Arguments  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  a series  
point.  
Drill down  on arguments  requires  that the Arguments  section  contains  several  Data  Items,  from 
the least  detailed  to the most  detailed  item.
BIViewer Guide 88
To enable  drill down  on arguments,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 
button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu)  and the Arguments  button  (or the 
 button  if you are 
using  the toolbar  menu).
Drill- Down  on a Series
When  drill down  on a series  is enabled,  you can click a series  point  (or corresponding  legend  item)  
to view a detail  chart  for the corresponding  series.
BIViewer Guide 89
When  Filtering  by Series  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  on a series  point.  
Drill down  on a series  requires  that the Series  section  contains  several  Data  Items,  from the least  
detailed  to the most  detailed  item.
To enable  drill down  on a series,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 
button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu)  and the Series  button  (or the 
 button  if you are using  
the toolbar  menu).
BIViewer Guide 90
Drill- Up
To return  to the previous  detail  level (drill up), use the Drill Up button  within  the Chart  caption  or in 
the context  menu.
Coloring
Certain  dashboard  items  provide  the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by associating  
dimension  values/  measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  
scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  scheme  for each  
dashboard  item.  
By default,  the Chart  dashboard  item colors  different  measures  and series  dimensions  by hue. In 
the example  below,  series  points  corresponding  to different  countries  (UK and USA)  are painted  
in different  colors.
BIViewer Guide 91
Legend
A legend  is an element  of a chart  that identifies  chart  series  and series  points  (for instance,  
colored  points  corresponding  to argument  values).
This topic  describes  how to customize  various  legend  settings.
Visibility
You can specify  whether  or not a chart  should  display  a legend.
In the Designer,  use the Show  Legend  button  in the Legend  section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 92
Position  and Orientation
To specify  the legend's  position  and orientation,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the 
gallery  in the Design  Ribbon  tab,
Axes
The Chart  dashboard  item displays  two axes  by default:  the X-axis and the Y-axis. The topics  in 
this section  describe  how to customize  axis settings.
X-Axis
The X-axis is the axis of arguments.
BIViewer Guide 93
General  X-Axis  Settings
To access  X-axis settings,  use the X-Axis Settings  button  in the Diagram  section  of the Design  
Ribbon  tab.
This will invoke  the X-Axis Settings  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 94
This dialog  contains  the following  settings:
ReverseAllows  you to reverse  the X-axis. If the X-axis is reversed,  its values  are ordered  from 
right to left.
Show  X-
axisAllows  you to hide and show  the X-axis.
Show  
titleAllows  you to hide and show  the X-axis title. You can choose  whether  to use the 
default  text or specify  a custom  string.
Enable  
zoomingAllows  you to enable  zooming  for the X-axis. The X- axis' scroll  bar provides  the 
capability  to perform  navigation  in the zoomed  diagram.
Limit  
visible  
pointsAllows  you to limit the number  of points  displayed  on the chart's  diagram  along  the X-
axis. The X-axis' scroll  bar provides  the capability  to perform  navigation  if the number  
of all points  exceeds  the number  of visible  points.
BIViewer Guide 95
Continuous  and Discrete  X-Axes
If the dimension  in the Arguments  section  contains  numeric  data,  the Chart  can create  either  a 
continuous  X-axis or a discrete  X-axis.
Continuous  X-axis Discrete  X-axis
If a continuous  axis is used,  the distance  between  
argument  values  is proportional  to their values.On a discrete  axis, all argument  values  are 
an equal  distance  from each  other.
 
 
 
 
To specify  the X-axis type in the Designer,  invoke  the data item menu  for the argument  dimension  
and select  the axis type.
Y-Axis
The Y-axis is the numerical  axis of values.
BIViewer Guide 96
General  Settings
To access  the Y-axis settings,  use the Y-Axis Settings  button  in the Diagram  section  of the Design  
Ribbon  tab.
This will invoke  the Y-Axis Settings  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 97
Use the combo  box at the top to select  the pane  for the Y-axis settings  you need  to edit. The 
dialog  contains  the following  settings:
Always  show  zero level : Specifies  whether  or not the axis' zero level is visible.  If this option  is 
unchecked,  the visible  axis range  is defined  based  on the values  plotted  in the chart.
BIViewer Guide 98
Reverse : Allows  you to reverse  the X-axis. If the X-axis is reversed,  its values  are ordered  from 
top to down.  
Show  grid lines : Allows  you to hide and show  grid lines for the Y-axis.
Show  Y-axis: Allows  you to hide and show  the Y-axis.
Show  title: Allows  you to hide and show  the Y-axis title. You can choose  whether  to use the 
default  text or specify  a custom  string.
Orientation
You can rotate  the Chart  so that the X-axis becomes  vertical,  and the Y-axis becomes  horizontal.
BIViewer Guide 99
BIViewer Guide 100
To rotate  a Chart  in the Designer,  use the Rotate  button  in the Diagram  group  of the Design  
Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 101
Scatter  Chart
The topics  in this section  describe  the features  available  in the Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item,  and 
provide  information  on how to create  and customize  scatter  charts  in the BI Dashboard.
The Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item visualizes  summaries  using  three  dimensions:  the X-axis, the 
Y-axis and the size of data points.
BIViewer Guide 102
The Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item can display  point  labels  and tooltips  that show  information  on 
data points.  To see a tooltip,  hover  over the required  point.
BIViewer Guide 103
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
Binding  to Data  in the Designer
The image  below  shows  a sample  Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
To bind the Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a 
placeholder  contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  
Scatter  Chart  data sections.
BIViewer Guide 104
Section Description
X-Axis Contains  the data item against  which  the X- coordinates  of data points  are 
calculated.
Y-Axis Contains  the data item against  which  the Y- coordinates  of data points  are 
calculated.
Weight Contains  the data item whose  values  are used  to calculate  the weight  of 
data points.
Arguments Contains  Data  Items  providing  scatter  chart  arguments  that are used  to 
create  data points.
Transposing  X and Y axis
The Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item provides  the capability  to transpose  its axes.  In this case,  the 
data item contained  in the X-Axis section  is moved  to the Y-Axis section,  and vice versa.
To transpose  the selected  Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item,  use the Transpose  button  in the Home  
ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 105
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  the Scatter  Chart  and other  
dashboard  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).
The Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item supports  filtering  by points  that correspond  to specific  
argument  values  or their combinations.
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can click a point  (or multiple  points  by holding  down  the 
CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  data related  to the selected  point (s).
BIViewer Guide 106
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  
 button  in the Chart's  caption  area,  or the Clear  
Master  Filter  command  in the context  menu.
Drill- Down
The built- in drill-down  capability  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data displayed  in 
dashboard  items  on the fly. 
When  drill-down  is enabled,  you can click a point  to view the details
BIViewer Guide 107
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  a point.
Drill-down  requires  that the Arguments  section  contain  several  dimensions,  from the least  to the 
most  detailed  dimension.
To enable  drill-down,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you 
are using  the toolbar  menu).
BIViewer Guide 108
To return  to the previous  detail  level (drill up), use the Drill Up 
 button  in the caption  of the 
Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item,  or the Drill Up command  in the context  menu.
Coloring
Certain  dashboard  items  provide  the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by associating  
dimension  values/  measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  
scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  scheme  for each  
dashboard  item.  
By default,  the Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item does  not color  its arguments.  If necessary,  you can 
change  this behavior.  For instance,  the image  below  displays  the Scatter  Chart  dashboard  item 
whose  Product  Category  points  are colored  by hue.
BIViewer Guide 109
Legend
A legend  is an element  of a scatter  chart  that identifies  chart  points  (for instance,  colored  points  
corresponding  to argument  values).
This topic  describes  how to customize  various  legend  settings.
Visibility
You can specify  whether  or not a chart  should  display  a legend.
In the Designer,  use the Show  Legend  button  in the Legend  section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 110
Position  and Orientation
To specify  the legend's  position  and orientation,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the 
gallery  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
Axes
Scatter  Chart  X and Y-axes  are numerical  axis of values.  You can specify  various  axes  settings  to 
change  visual  data presentation.
BIViewer Guide 111
To access  X and Y-axis settings,  use the X-Axis Settings/Y- Axis Settings  buttons  in the Diagram  
section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
This will invoke  the X-Axis Settings/Y- Axis Settings  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 112
In this dialog,  you can specify  the following  settings:
Always  show  zero level : Specifies  whether  or not the axis' zero level is visible.  If this option  is 
unchecked,  the visible  axis range  is defined  based  on the values  plotted  in the chart.  Note  that the 
X-Axis setting  dialog  does  not contain  this option.
Reverse : Allows  you to reverse  the axis. If the axis is reversed,  its values  are ordered  from top to 
down.  
Show  grid lines : Allows  you to hide and show  grid lines for the axis.
Show  axis: Allows  you to hide and show  the axis.
Show  title: Allows  you to hide and show  the axis title. You can choose  whether  to use the default  
text or specify  a custom  string.
Logarithmic  scale : Specifies  whether  or not the axis should  display  its numerical  values  using  a 
logarithmic  scale.  The combo  box next to this option  allows  you to select  the logarithmic  base  from 
one of the predefined  values.
BIViewer Guide 113
Orientation
You can rotate  the Scatter  Chart  so that the X-axis becomes  vertical,  and the Y-axis becomes  
horizontal.  To rotate  a Chart  in the Designer,  use the Rotate  button  in the Diagram  section  of the 
Design  Ribbon  tab.
Labels
The Scatter  Chart  display  can display  point  labels  that contain  descriptions  for data points,  and 
provide  tooltips  with additional  information.
Point  Labels
To manage  the visibility  of point  labels,  click the Point  Labels  button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 114
In the invoked  Point  Label  Settings  dialog,  enable  the Show  point  labels  check  box to show  point  
labels.
You can specify  the following  settings  for point  labels:
BIViewer Guide 115
 lContent : Specifies  the type of content  displayed  within  point  labels.  You can select  one of 
the following  options:
 oValues : Point  labels  show  summary  values  from X and Y-axes.
 oArgument : Point  labels  show  argument  values.  
 oArgument  and values : Point  labels  show  argument  values  and corresponding  
summary  values.
 oWeight : Point  labels  show  the weight  summary  value.  
 oArgument  and weight : Point  labels  show  the argument  value  and the 
corresponding  weight  summary  value.
 lOverlapping  mode : Specifies  the label  overlap  mode.  The following  options  are available:
 oHide  Overlapping  labels : If two or more  labels  overlap,  some  of them  are 
automatically  hidden  to avoid  overlapping.
 oNone : The  overlapping  resolving  algorithm  is disabled.
 oReposition  overlapping  labels : The default  algorithm  to re-position  point  labels  in a 
random  way, and avoid  overlapping  labels.
 lOrientation : Specifies  the orientation  of point  labels.  The following  options  are available:
 oDefault : A point  label  is displayed  in its default  orientation.
 oRotate  to the Right : A point  label  is rotated  90 degrees  clockwise.
 oRotate  to the Left: A point  label  is rotated  90 degrees  counter  clockwise.
BIViewer Guide 116
Grid
The topics  in this section  describe  the features  available  in the Grid dashboard  item,  and provide  
extensive  information  on how to create  and customize  grids  in the Dashboard  Designer.
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Grid dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Grid dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 117
To bind the Grid dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a placeholder  
contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  a Grid's  data 
sections.
Section Description
Columns Contains  Data  Items  that provide  values  for grid columns.  The 
Option  s button  next to the Column  data item allows  you to select  
the column  type and specify  their options.
Sparkline Contains  a data item that provides  arguments  for sparkline  
columns.  To learn  more,  see Sparkline  Column.
The Grid displays  data in a two-dimensional  table  that supports  four types  of columns.
BIViewer Guide 118
 lThe dimension  column  displays  values  from the bound  data item "as is".
 lThe measure  column  displays  summaries  calculated  from data in the bound  data item.
 lThe delta  column , bound  to two measures,  calculates  summaries  for both measures,  and 
displays  the difference  between  these  summaries.
 lThe sparkline  column  visualizes  the variation  of summary  values  over time.
To sort records  by a column's  values  and replace  existing  sort conditions  that are applied  to the 
current  or other  columns,  click the target  column's  header  until an Up or Dow n arrow  icon is 
displayed  within  the header.  The Up and Dow n arrows  indicate  ascending  and descending  sort 
orders,  respectively.
To sort records  by a column's  values  while  preserving  existing  sort conditions,  click a column  
header  while  holding  the Shift  key until an Up or Down  arrow  icon is displayed  within  the header.
BIViewer Guide 119
To remove  sorting  by a column,  click a column  header  while  holding  down  the CTRL  key.
To filter grid data,  click the filter button  (the icon)  and select  the required  filter value  in the invoked  
filter drop- down  list.
Click  Custom  to construct  filter criteria  involving  up to two conditions.  This will invoke  the Custom  
AutoFilter  dialog,  allowing  you to compare  a column  with one or two values.
BIViewer Guide 120
To clear  the filter applied  to a specific  column,  invoke  the filter drop- down  list and click All.
To clear  all filter criteria,  click the Close  Filter  button  within  the Filter  Panel.
A Grid dashboard  item can display  a tooltip  when  the mouse  pointer  is hovered  over the bar in the 
measure  column.
BIViewer Guide 121
The tooltip  shows  the value  in the measure  column  as text.
When  the mouse  pointer  is hovered  over the cell in the sparkline  column,  the tooltip  can display  
start/end  values  and minimum/maximum  values.
Columns
The topics  in this section  describe  the different  types  of grid columns,  and contain  information  on 
when  to use each  column  type and how to customize  them  based  on the type.
Column  Type  Overview
The Grid dashboard  item supports  four types  of columns:
 lDimension  Column : Displays  values  in the bound  data item "as is".
 lMeasure  Column : Displays  summaries  calculated  against  data in the bound  data item.
 lDelta  Column : Bound  to two measures,  it calculates  summaries  for both measures,  and 
displays  the difference  between  these  summaries.
 lSparkline  Column : Displays  values  in the bound  data item using  sparklines.
BIViewer Guide 122
When  you drop a data item into the Columns  section,  the type for the new column  is determined  
automatically,  based  on the data type.
Column  Type  Indication
The type of the column  is indicated  within  the corresponding  data item container  in the Data  Items  
area.
Column  type indicators  are defined  as follows:
Dimension  Column
Measure  Column
Delta  Column
Sparkline  Column
BIViewer Guide 123
Changing  Column  Type
To change  the column  type,  click the column  type indicator.  In the invoked  Column  Options  
window,  select  the required  column  type in the Column  type section.
Dimension  Column
The dimension  column  displays  values  from the bound  data item "as is".
If the dimension  column  is bound  to a data source  containing  images,  it can display  images.
BIViewer Guide 124
Measure  Column
A measure  column  displays  summaries  calculated  against  data in a bound  data item.
Values  in the measure  column  can be displayed  as text or represented  by bars.
To select  between  these  modes,  invoke  the Column  Options  window  and select  Value  or Bar.
BIViewer Guide 125
If bars are displayed,  use the Always  show  zero level check  box to specify  whether  the bar's  zero 
level is always  visible.
Delta  Column
A delta  column  calculates  summaries  against  two measures,  and displays  the difference  between  
these  summaries.  This difference  can be indicated  with a numeric  value  displayed  within  the delta  
element  and an additional  delta  indication.
Data  Binding  Specifics
Delta  columns  are bound  to two measures  that provide  two values:  the Actual  value  and the 
Target  value.  The difference  between  these  values  is displayed  in the column.
When  you switch  the column  type to Delta,  the data item container  is changed,  to accept  the 
Actual  and Target  measures.
BIViewer Guide 126
Display  Mode
Values  in the delta  column  can be displayed  as text, or represented  by bars.
To select  between  these  modes,  invoke  the Column  Options  window  and select  Value  or Bar.
BIViewer Guide 127
If bars are displayed,  use the Always  show  zero level check  box to specify  whether  the bar's  
minimum  value  is zero (checked)  or an automatically  selected  value  that ensures  that the 
difference  between  bars is clearly  displayed  (unchecked).
Delta  Values  and Indication
If the display  type is set to Value,  the Column  Options  window  displays  options  that allow  you to 
configure  delta  values  and indication.
BIViewer Guide 128
You can specify  which  values  should  be displayed  in the delta  column.  To do this, use the Value  
type combo  box in the Column  Options  window.
Actual  Value Absolute  Variation Percent  Variation Percent  of Target
 
  
  
  
To specify  the condition  for displaying  delta  indication,  use the Result  indication  combo  box in the 
Column  Options  window.
Greater  is Good Less  is Good Warning  if Greater Warning  if Less No Indication
 
  
  
  
  
Comparison  Tolerance
The comparison  tolerance  allows  you to specify  more  advanced  conditions  for displaying  delta  
indication.  For instance,  you can set a specific  indication  to be displayed  when  the actual  value  
exceeds  the target  value  by 10% or by $2K.
Use the Threshold  type combo  box to select  whether  you wish to specify  the comparison  
tolerance  in percentage  values  or in absolute  values.  Then  use the Threshold  value  box to specify  
the comparison  tolerance.
BIViewer Guide 129
Sparkline  Column
A sparkline  column  visualizes  the variation  in summary  values  over time.
Data  Binding  Specifics
The sparkline  column  is bound  to a measure  providing  sparkline  values  and to a dimension  
providing  a date- time interval.
BIViewer Guide 130
Sparkline  Options
You can control  sparkline  appearance  settings  using  the Column  Options  dialog.  To invoke  this 
dialog,  click the column  type indicator  (
).
BIViewer Guide 131
In this dialog,  you can control  various  settings  that affect  how the sparkline  is displayed  within  a 
grid cell.
Sparkline  
OptionsDescription
Show  
start/end  
valuesSpecies  whether  or not to display  sparkline  start/end  values  within  a grid 
cell.
Sparkline  
view typeDefines  the view type of a sparkline.  Sparkline  view types  include  Line,  
Area,  Bar, and Win/Loss.
Highlight  
min/max  
pointsSpecifies  whether  or not to highlight  the minimum/  maximum  points  of a 
sparkline.
Highlight  
start/end  
pointsSpecifies  whether  or not to highlight  the start/end  points  of a sparkline.
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  the Grid and other  dashboard  
items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
BIViewer Guide 132
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
Configure  Master  Filters  in the Designer
The Grid dashboard  item supports  filtering  by rows.
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can click a grid row (or multiple  rows  by holding  down  the 
CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  data related  to the selected  record (s).
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  (the 
 icon)  in the grid's  caption  area,  or the 
Clear  Master  Filter  command  in the grid's  context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 133
Drill- Down
The built- in drill-down  capability  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data displayed  in 
dashboard  items  on the fly. 
 
The Grid dashboard  item supports  drill-down  for rows.
When  drill-down  is enabled,  you can click a grid row to view the details.
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  a grid row.
Drill-down  requires  that the Columns  section  contains  several  dimensions  at the top, from the 
least  detailed  to the most  detailed  dimension.
BIViewer Guide 134
To enable  drill-down,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are 
using  the toolbar  menu).
To return  to the previous  detail  level (drill up), use the Drill Up button  (the 
 icon)  within  the grid's  
caption  area,  or the Drill Up command  in the grid's  context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 135
Conditional  Formatting
The Grid dashboard  item supports  the conditional  formatting  feature  that provides  the capability  to 
apply  formatting  to grid cells whose  values  meet  the specified  condition.  This feature  allows  you to 
highlight  specific  cells or entire  rows  using  a predefined  set of rules.  
Conditional  Formatting  Overview
The Grid dashboard  item allows  you to apply  conditional  formatting  to Data  Items  providing  data 
to the following  column  types:
 lDimension  column
 lMeasure  Column
 lSparkline  Column
NOTE:  You can use hidden  measures  to specify  a condition  used  to apply  formatting  to 
visible  values.  New appearance  settings  are applied  to grid cells corresponding  to the 
target  dimension/measure  values.
Create  a Formal  Rule
To create  a new format  rule for the grid's  dimension/measure,  do one of the following:
Click  the Options  button  next to the required  measure/dimension,  select  Add Format  Rule  and 
choose  the condition.
BIViewer Guide 136
Right- click the column  header  corresponding  to the required  measure/dimension  and select  Add 
Format  Rule .
BIViewer Guide 137
Depending  on the selected  format  condition,  the dialog  used  to create  a format  rule for Grid 
contains  different  settings.  For instance,  the image  below  displays  the Greater  Than  dialog  
corresponding  to the Value  format  condition.
The Apply  to row check  box allows  you to specify  whether  to apply  the formatting  to the entire  
grid row.
Edit a Format  Rule
To edit format  rules  for the current  Grid dashboard  item,  use the following  options:
BIViewer Guide 138
 lClick  the Edit Rules  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab or use corresponding  item in the Grid 
context  menu.
 lClick  the menu  button  for the required  data item and select  Edit Rules . As an alternative,  
right- click the column  header  corresponding  to the required  data item and select  Edit Rules.
All of these  actions  invoke  the Edit Rules  dialog  containing  existing  format  rules.  
Totals
The Grid dashboard  item enables  you to add a summary  value  (a total)  calculated  against  
displayed  values  of an individual  column,  and show  the result  under  this column.  Note  that you 
can add any number  of totals  for each  column.  For example,  you can obtain  the number  of column  
records,  average  or maximum  value,  etc.
Totals  Overview
You can use the following  summary  functions  when  creating  totals:
BIViewer Guide 139
 lCount : The number  of records
 lSum : The sum of the values
 lMin: The  smallest  value
 lMax: The largest  value
 lAverage : The average  of the values
 lAuto : The total is calculated  using  the type of summary  function  specified  for the measure  
corresponding  to the current  Grid column.  Note  that in this case,  the total is calculated  
based  on values  of the corresponding  data field from the underlying  data source.
You can create  totals  using  different  sets of summary  functions.  This depends  on the type of the 
data source  field providing  data for the target  column.
 
Icon Data  Source  Field  Type Supported  Totals
Boolean Count
Byte Count
Date- time Min,Max, Count
BIViewer Guide 140
Icon Data  Source  Field  Type Supported  Totals
 
Numeric Allavailable types
String Min,Max, Count
Note  that the Auto type is available  only for the Measure  column.
Create  and Edit Tools
To create  a total,  use the context  menu  of the column  header.  Right- click the required  column  
header,  select  Add Total  and specify  the type of summary  function  used  to calculate  a total.
To change  the total type,  right- click the required  total and select  a new total type.
BIViewer Guide 141
Clear  Totals
You can delete  one total or all the totals  in a particular  column.
To delete  a single  total,  right- click a total and select  Remove .
BIViewer Guide 142
To delete  all column  totals,  right- click the column  header  and select  Clear  Totals  in the invoked  
context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 143
Layout
The Grid dashboard  item allows  you to customize  its layout  in various  ways.  You can manage  the 
width  of grid columns,  specify  the visibility  of column  headers,  enable  cell merging,  etc.
To do this, use the Layout  and Column  Width  Mode  groups  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
The Grid dashboard  item allows  you to manage  column  widths  using  different  modes.  Use buttons  
in the Column  Width  Mode  group  to manage  the column  width  modes.
The following  modes  are available:
 lAutoFit  to Contents : The grid adjusts  columns  to the minimum  width  required  to 
completely  display  their content  automatically.  If the entire  content  cannot  be displayed  
within  the dashboard  item,  horizontal  scrolling  is enabled.
 lAutoFit  to Grid: The grid adjusts  the width  of all columns  to fit their content  in an optimal  
way. If you are changing  the size of the dashboard  item,  the width  of columns  is changed  
BIViewer Guide 144
proportionally..
 lManual : The grid allows  you to adjust  column  widths  manually.  
In this mode,  you can adjust  the width  of individual  columns  in the following  ways: 
Specify  the width  of the required  column  by dragging  the right edge  of the column  header
In this case,  all columns  preserve  their relative  size when  the grid width  is changed.
Specify  the column  width  and fix it by right- clicking  the required  column  header  and selecting  Fix 
Width .
BIViewer Guide 145
You can also specify  the fixed  column  width  by selecting  Column  Width.  This invokes  the Column  
Width  window  that allows  you to specify  the width  of the column  in characters.
Fit the column  width  to its content  and fix it by right- clicking  the required  column  header  and 
selecting  Fit to Content.
Column  Header
Use the Column  Headers  button  to toggle  column  header  visibility.
Cell Merging
The Grid allows  you to merge  neighboring  cells with identical  values  . To do this, use the Merge  
Cells  button.
BIViewer Guide 146
Note  that the banded  rows  are not available  when  cell merging  is enabled.
Word  Wrapping
The word  wrapping  feature  enables  the capability  to display  cell content  on multiple  lines if the 
size of a dashboard  item is insufficient  to completely  display  the cell content  on a single  line.
The word  wrapping  feature  is not in effect  when  the AutoFit  to Contents  column  width  mode  is 
enabled.  
Style
The Grid dashboard  item allows  you to specify  various  style settings.  To do this, use the Style  
group  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 147
Grid Lines
The Horizontal  Lines  and Vertical  Lines  buttons  control  grid line visibility
Banded  Rows
To paint  the background  of odd and even  rows  differently,  use the Banded  Rows  button.
Banded  rows  are not available  when  cell merging  is enabled.
BIViewer Guide 148
Pies
The Pie dashboard  item displays  a series  of pies or donuts  that represent  the contribution  of each  
value  to a total.
The Pie dashboard  item displays  a series  of pies or donuts  that represent  the contribution  of each  
value  to a total.
A Pie dashboard  item can display  a tooltip  that shows  information  about  the hovered  pie segment.
BIViewer Guide 149
Providing  Data  
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Pie dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
Binding  to the Data  in the Designer
The image  below  shows  a sample  Pie dashboard  item that is bound  to data,
BIViewer Guide 150
To bind the Pie dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a placeholder  
contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  Pie's  data 
sections.
Section Description
Values Contains  Data  Items  that define  the share  of pie segments.  In case  of 
negative  measure  values,  Pie uses  their absolute  values.
Arguments Contains  Data  Items  that provide  values  used  to label  pie segments.
Series Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to label  pie charts.
BIViewer Guide 151
Transposing  Arguments  and Series
The Pie dashboard  item provides  the capability  to transpose  pie arguments  and series.  In this 
case,  Data  Items  contained  in the Arguments  section  are moved  to the Series  section,  and vice 
versa.
To transpose  the selected  Pie dashboard  item,  use the Transpose  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 152
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  the Pie dashboard  item and other  
items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
The Pie dashboard  item supports  filtering  by argument  or series  values.
Filtering  by Arguments
When  filtering  by arguments  is enabled,  you can click a pie segment  to make  other  dashboard  
items  only display  data related  to the selected  argument  value.
BIViewer Guide 153
To enable  filtering  by arguments  in the Designer,  set the required  Master  Filter  mode  and click the 
Arguments  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu).
Filtering  by the Series
When  filtering  by series  is enabled,  you can click a pie to make  other  dashboard  items  display  only 
data related  to the selected  pie.
To enable  filtering  by series  in the Designer,  set the required  Master  Filter  mode  and click the 
Series  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu).
BIViewer Guide 154
Filtering  by Points
When  filtering  by points  is enabled,  you can click a single  pie segment  to make  other  dashboard  
items  display  only data related  to the selected  segment.
To enable  filtering  by points  in the Designer,  set the required  Master  Filter  mode  and click the 
Points  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 155
Reset  Filtering
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  (the 
 icon)  in the caption  area of the Pie 
dashboard  item,  or the Clear  Master  Filter  command  in the Pie's  context  menu.
Drill- Down
The built- in drill-down  capability  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data displayed  in 
dashboard  items  on the fly. 
The Pie dashboard  item supports  drill-down  on argument  or series  values.
Drill- Down  on an Argument
When  drill down  on an argument  is enabled,  you can click a pie segment  to view a detail  diagram  
for the corresponding  argument  value.
When  Filtering  by Arguments  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  a pie 
segment.
Drill down  on an argument  requires  that the Arguments  section  contains  several  Data  Items,  from 
the least  detailed  to the most  detailed  item.
BIViewer Guide 156
To enable  drill down  on an argument,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 
button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu)  and the Arguments  button  (or the 
 button  if you are 
using  the toolbar  menu).
Drill- Down  on a Series
When  drill down  on a series  is enabled,  you can click a pie chart  to view a detail  diagram  for the 
corresponding  series  value.
BIViewer Guide 157
When  Filtering  by Series  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  a pie chart.  
Drill down  on a series  requires  that the Series  section  contains  several  Data  Items,  from the least  
detailed  to the most  detailed  item.
To enable  drill down  on a series,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 
button  if you are using  the toolbar  menu)  and the Series  button  (or the 
button  if you are using  
the toolbar  menu).
BIViewer Guide 158
Drill Up
To return  to the previous  detail  level (drill up), use the Drill Up button  (the 
 icon)  in the caption  
area of the Pie dashboard  item,  or the Drill Up command  in the context  menu.
Coloring
Certain  dashboard  items  provide  the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by associating  
dimension  values/  measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  
scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  scheme  for each  
dashboard  item.
By default,  the Pie dashboard  item colors  its segments  in the following  ways:
 lIf the Pie dashboard  item contains  measures  (the Values  section)  and series  dimensions  
(the Series  section),  only values  corresponding  to different  measures  are colored  by hue.
 lIf the Pie dashboard  item contains  arguments  (the Arguments  section),  different  argument  
values  are colored  by hue.
BIViewer Guide 159
If necessary,  you can change  the default  behavior.  For instance,  the image  below  shows  the Pie 
dashboard  item whose  measures  and argument  values  are colored  by hue.
Layout
The Pie dashboard  item allows  you to specify  the number  of columns  or rows  in which  individual  
diagrams  are arranged.
To control  how pies are arranged,  use the buttons  in the Content  Arrangement  group  of the 
Design  Ribbon  tab. By default,  the Auto Arrange  option  is enabled,  which  automatically  resizes  
pies to fit within  the dashboard  item.
BIViewer Guide 160
You can also specify  the number  of columns  in which  pies are arranged.  Click  the Arrange  in 
Columns  button  and specify  the appropriate  number  in the Count  field.
BIViewer Guide 161
Similarly,  you can arrange  pies in a specific  number  of rows.
BIViewer Guide 162
Labels
BIViewer Guide 163
You can specify  which  information  should  be displayed  within  data labels  and tooltips.  To do this, 
use the Data  Labels  and Tooltips  buttons  in the Labels  group  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
These  buttons  invoke  a drop- down  menu  that is similar  for both buttons.  This menu  allows  you to 
specify  which  values  are displayed  within  data labels  or tooltips.
Style
The Pie dashboard  item allows  you to select  whether  diagrams  should  be painted  as pies or 
donuts.
BIViewer Guide 164
To select  the diagram  style,  use the Pie and Donut  buttons  in the Style  section  of the Design  
Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 165
Cards
The Card  dashboard  item displays  a series  of cards.  Each  card illustrates  the difference  between  
two values.  This difference  can be expressed  as an absolute  value,  an absolute  variation  or a 
percentage  variation.
The Card  dashboard  item displays  a series  of cards.  Each  card illustrates  the difference  between  
two values.  This difference  can be expressed  as an absolute  value,  an absolute  variation  or a 
percentage  variation.
BIViewer Guide 166
The Card  dashboard  item can illustrate  this difference  for various  sets of values.  You can switch  
between  these  sets using  the Values  button  (the icon)  in the dashboard  item caption  area or in the 
context  menu.
A Card  dashboard  item can display  a tooltip  for cards  containing  a sparkline.  When  the mouse  
pointer  is hovered  over the sparkline,  the tooltip  can display  start/end  values  and 
minimum/maximum  values.
BIViewer Guide 167
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Card  dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
Binding  to Data  in the Designer
The image  below  shows  a sample  Card  dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 168
To bind the Card  dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a placeholder  
contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  Card  data 
sections.
BIViewer Guide 169
Section Description
Cards Contains  Data  Items  used  to calculate  values  displayed  within  cards.  Data  
Items  are arranged  in containers.  Each  data item container  can hold two 
Data  Items.  The first item contains  actual  data and the second  item 
(optional)  contains  target  data.  If both items  are provided,  cards  show  the 
difference  between  actual  and target  values.  
You can fill several  data item containers  in the Cards  section  and use the 
Values  drop- down  menu  to switch  between  the provided  values.  To invoke  
the Values  menu,  click the icon in the dashboard  item caption  or use its 
context  menu.  This drop- down  menu  is available  if the Series  section  is not 
empty.
Otherwise,  a separate  card is created  for each  data item container,  and all 
cards  are displayed  simultaneously.
Series Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to label  cards.
Sparkline Provide  a dimension  whose  data will be used  to visualize  values  using  
sparklines.
Layout
The Card  dashboard  item allows  you to manage  the position  and visibility  of elements  displayed  
on cards.  These  elements  include  actual  and target  values,  a delta  indicator  and corresponding  
delta  values,  a sparkline,  etc. 
To manage  the position  and visibility  of card elements,  choose  a predefined  layout  template  and 
customize  its settings.
BIViewer Guide 170
Available  Layout  Templates
The table  below  contains  information  about  the available  layout  templates:
Layout  Type Example Description
Stretched  
 The Stretched  layout  template  
arranges  card elements  so that 
they occupy  an entire  card area.
Centered  
 The Centered  layout  template  is 
used  to center  card elements  so 
that they occupy  a specified  
width/  height.
Compact  
 The Compact  layout  template  is 
used  to arrange  card elements  
so that they occupy  the minimum  
area.
Lightweight
 The Lightweight  layout  template  
displays  the minimum  set of 
elements  within  a card.
For all layout  types,  you can change  the visibility  of its elements,  or you can specify  the display  
value  type for data-  bound  elements.  
BIViewer Guide 171
Default  Layout
The Card  dashboard  item uses  the Stretched  layout  template  that arranges  card visual  elements  
in the following  way by default.
Delta  Indicator  and delta  values  (such  as Percent  Variation  or Absolute  Variation)  are colored  
depending  on delta  settings.  
Change  Layout
To change  a card's  layout  in the Dashboard  Designer,  click the Options  button  (the 
 icon)  
displayed  next to the data item container  in the Cards  section.
BIViewer Guide 172
This invokes  the Card  Settings  dialog.
On the Layout  Options  tab, select  the required  layout  type in the Select  template  list and specify  
its settings:
BIViewer Guide 173
Min width : Specifies  the minimum  width  of the card content.
Max width : Specifies  the maximum  width  of the card content.  Use the Auto option  to determine  
the maximum  width  automatically.
You can show/hide  the following  values  and visual  elements  within  the card:
Value Description Example
Title Displays  values  of the last (bottommost)  
dimension  placed  in the Series  section.   Microsoft  Office  
Keyboard
BIViewer Guide 174
Value Description Example
Subtitle Displays  combined  values  of all dimensions  
except  the last (bottommost)  dimension.Technology  - 
Computer  
Peripherals
Absolute  
VariationAn absolute  difference  between  the actual  and 
target  value.+1 8 .1 K
Actual  Value A summary  value  for a measure  placed  in the 
Actual  placeholder.   $ 3 9 2 K
Card  Name A card name. Revenue  vs . Target
Percent  of 
TargetA percent  of a target. 1 0 4 .8 5 %
Percent  
VariationA percent  difference  between  the actual  and target  
value.4 .8 5 %
Target  Value A summary  value  for a measure  placed  in the 
Target  placeholder.  $ 3 7 4 K
Dimension  
{Name}Allows  you to display  values  of a specific  
dimension  placed  in the Series  section.  Technology
BIViewer Guide 175
Element Description Example
Delta  
IndicatorIndicates  whether  the actual  value  is less or greater  than 
the target  value  (see Delta).    
Sparkline Visualizes  the variation  of actual  or target  values.  To learn  
more,  see Sparkline.    
Use the Apply  to All Cards  button  to propagate  the specified  layout  settings  to all cards  
corresponding  to Actual- Target  pairs.  The Reset  button  resets  all setting  to their default  values.
Delta
Cards  allow  you to visualize  the difference  between  the actual  and target  values  using  special  
delta  values  and a delta  indicator.  If the default  layout  is used  (Stretched  layout  type),  the card 
displays  the following  delta  values/  elements:
BIViewer Guide 176
 lDelta  Indicator : Indicates  whether  the actual  value  is less or greater  than the target  value.
 lPercent  Variation  and Absolute  Variation : Delta  values  that show  a difference  between  
the actual  and target  value.  You can also display  the Percent  of Target  value.  To do this, 
customize  the card's  layout.
To customize  settings  that relate  to the calculation  and display  of delta  values/elements,  use the 
Options  button  (the 
 icon)  displayed  next to the data item container  in the Cards  section.
In the invoked  Card  Settings  dialog,  go to the Delta  Options  tab.
BIViewer Guide 177
Then,  specify  the following  settings:
Result  Indication : You  can specify  the condition  for displaying  delta  indication.
Greater  is Good : The  'good'  indication  is displayed  if the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value;  if 
the target  value  exceeds  the actual  value,  the 'bad' indication  displays.
Less  is Good : The  'bad' indication  displays  if the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value;  if the 
target  value  exceeds  the actual  value,  the 'good'  indication  displays.
BIViewer Guide 178
Warning  if Greater : A warning  is displays  only if the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value
Warning  if Less : A warning  is displays  only if the target  value  exceeds  the actual  value.
No Indication : Indication  does  not display.
BIViewer Guide 179
Threshold  type / Threshold  value : For instance,  you can specify  that a specific  indication  
should  display  when  the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value  by 10% or by $2K. Use the 
Threshold  type combo  box to select  whether  you wish to specify  the comparison  tolerance  in 
percentage  values  or absolute  values.
Then  use the Threshold  value  box to specify  the comparison  tolerance.
Sparkline
Sparklines  can be used  to visualize  the variation  of actual  or target  values  (for instance,  over 
time).
Data  Binding  Specifics
You need  to provide  a date- time or numeric  dimension  whose  data is used  as argument  values  to 
display  a sparkline  within  the card.
BIViewer Guide 180
If you have  provided  both actual  and target  values,  a sparkline  visualizes  the actual  value's  
variation.
Change  Sparkline  Options
To manage  sparkline  settings,  click the Options  button  (the 
 icon)  displayed  next to the data 
item container.  In the invoked  Card  Settings  dialog,  go to the Sparkline  Options  tab:
BIViewer Guide 181
The following  options  are available:
Sparkline  
OptionsDescription
Sparkline  view 
typeDefines  the sparklines  view type.  Sparkline  data points  can be represented  
as area,  line, bars,  or win and loss squares.
Highlight  
min/max  
pointsSpecifies  whether  to highlight  the minimum/maximum  points  of a 
sparkline.
Highlight  
start/end  
pointsSpecifies  whether  to highlight  the start/end  points  of a sparkline.
BIViewer Guide 182
Formatting
The Card  dashboard  item formats  the actual  and target  values  displayed  within  cards  using  format  
settings  specified  for Data  Items.  Click  the options  buttons  (the 
 icon)  displayed  next to the 
data item container  in the Cards  section  to change  format  settings  for other  values.
In the invoked  Card  Settings  dialog,  go to the Format  Options  tab and use the Select  value  type 
option  to specify  which  values  format  settings  should  change.
BIViewer Guide 183
You can change  format  settings  for the following  value  types:
 lActual  Value
 lTarget  Value
 l Absolute  Variation
 lPercent  of Target
 lPercent  Variation
BIViewer Guide 184
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  the Card  dashboard  item and 
other  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can click a card (or multiple  cards  by holding  down  the 
CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  data related  to the selected  card(s).
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  (the 
 icon)  in the caption  of the Card  
dashboard  item,  or the Clear  Master  Filter  command  in the Card's  context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 185
Drill- Down
The built- in drill-down  capability  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data displayed  in 
dashboard  items  on the fly. 
When  drill-down  is enabled,  you can click a card to view the details.
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can view the details  by double- clicking  a card.
Drill-down  requires  that the Series  section  contains  several  dimensions,  from the least  to the most  
detailed  dimension.
BIViewer Guide 186
To enable  drill-down,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are 
using  the toolbar  menu).
To return  to the previous  detail  level (drill up), use the Drill Up button  (the 
 icon)  in the caption  of 
the Card  dashboard  item,  or the Drill Up command  in the Card's  context  menu.
Cards  Arrangement
The Card  dashboard  item allows  you to specify  the number  of columns  or rows  in which  individual  
cards  are arranged.
BIViewer Guide 187
Use the buttons  in the Content  Arrangement  group  of the Design  Ribbon  tab to control  how cards  
are arranged.  The Auto Arrange  option  is enabled  by default,  which  automatically  resizes  cards  to 
fit within  the dashboard  item.
You can also specify  the number  of columns  in which  cards  are arranged.  Click  the Arrange  in 
Columns  button  and specify  the appropriate  number  in the Count  field.
BIViewer Guide 188
Similarly,  you can arrange  cards  in a specific  number  of rows.
BIViewer Guide 189
BIViewer Guide 190
Gauges
The Gauge  dashboard  item displays  a series  of gauges.  Each  gauge  can communicate  two 
values  - one with a needle  and the other  with a marker  on the scale.
The Gauge  dashboard  item can illustrate  the difference  for various  sets of values.  You can switch  
between  these  sets using  the Values  button  (the 
 icon)  in the dashboard  item caption  or in the 
context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 191
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Gauge  dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Gauge  dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 192
To bind the Gauge  dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a placeholder  
contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  Gauge's  data 
sections.
Section Description
Gauges Contains  Data  Items  used  to calculate  values  displayed  by gauges.  Data  
Items  are arranged  in containers.  Each  data item contain  er can hold two Data  
Items.  The first item contains  actual  data and the second  item (optional)  
contains  target  data.  If both items  are provided,  gauges  show  the difference  
between  actual  and target  values.  
You can fill several  data item containers  in the Gauges  section  and use the 
Values  drop- down  menu  to switch  between  the provided  values.  To invoke  
the Values  menu,  click the icon in the dashboard  item caption.  This drop-  own 
menu  is available  if the Series  section  is not empty.  Otherwise,  a separate  
gauge  is created  for each  data item container,  and all gauges  are displayed  
simultaneously.  
BIViewer Guide 193
Section Description
Series Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to label  gauges.
Delta
Gauges  allow  you to display  the difference  between  the actual  and target  values  of a particular  
parameter.  This difference  is called  delta.
Delta  is shown  with a delta  indicator  (indicating  whether  the actual  value  is less than or greater  
than the target  value)  and delta  values  (representing  this difference  as an absolute  value  or a 
variation).
To customize  settings  that relate  to the calculation  and display  of deltas,  use the options  buttons  
(the 
 icon)  displayed  next to the data item container  in the Gauges  section  of the Data  Items  
pane.
BIViewer Guide 194
These  buttons  invoke  the Gauge  Options  dialog.
Use it to define  the condition  for displaying  delta  indication,  specify  which  delta  values  should  be 
displayed,  and introduce  the comparison  tolerance.
Delta  Values
You can specify  which  values  should  be displayed  within  gauges.  Use the Value  type combo  box 
in the Gauge  Options  window  to select  the value  that will be displayed  as the delta  value.
Value  Type Result
Actual  Value 
Absolute  Variation 
Percentage  Variation 
BIViewer Guide 195
Percentage  of Target 
Delta  Indication
You can specify  the condition  for displaying  delta  indication.  To do this, use the Result  indication  
combo  box in the Gauge  Options  window.
Greater  is Good : The 'good'  indication  is displayed  if the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value;  if 
the target  value  exceeds  the actual  value,  the 'bad' indication  is displayed.
Less  is Good : The  'bad' indication  is displayed  if the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value;  if the 
target  value  exceeds  the actual  value,  the 'good'  indication  is displayed.
BIViewer Guide 196
No Indication : Indication  is not displayed.
Warning  if Greater : A warning  is displayed  if the actual  value  exceeds  the target  value;  
otherwise,  no indication  is displayed.
BIViewer Guide 197
Warning  if Less : A warning  is displayed  if the target  value  exceeds  the actual  value;  otherwise,  
no indication  is displayed.
BIViewer Guide 198
Comparison  Tolerance
The comparison  tolerance  allows  you to create  more  advanced  conditions  for displaying  delta  
indication.  For instance,  you can specify  that a specific  indication  should  be displayed  when  the 
actual  value  exceeds  the target  value  by 10% or by $2K.
Use the Threshold  type combo  box to select  whether  you wish to specify  the comparison  
tolerance  in percentage  values  or in absolute  values.  Then  use the Threshold  value  box to specify  
the comparison  tolerance.
Gauge  Scale
By default,  the Gauge  dashboard  item automatically  determines  the range  of the gauge  scales  
based  on the values  they display.
 
 
You can override  this behavior  and specify  the maximum  and minimum  values  on the scale.
To do this, invoke  the Gauge  Options  window  using  the Options  button  displayed  in the data item 
container  in the Gauges  section  of the Data  Items  pane.
BIViewer Guide 199
In the Gauge  Options  window,  uncheck  the Auto check  box for the maximum  or minimum  value,  
and specify  this value  in the corresponding  field.
BIViewer Guide 200
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  the Gauge  dashboard  item and 
other  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
When  master  filtering  is enabled,  you can click a gauge  (or multiple  gauges  by holding  down  the 
CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  data related  to the selected  gauge (s).
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  (the 
 icon)  in the caption  of the Gauge  
dashboard  item,  or the Clear  Master  Filter  command  in the Gauges  context  menu.
Drill- Down
The built- in drill-down  capability  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data displayed  in 
dashboard  items  on the fly. When  drill-down  is enabled,  you can click a gauge  to view the details.
BIViewer Guide 201
Drill-down  requires  that the Series  section  contains  several  dimensions,  from the least  detailed  to 
the most  detailed  dimension.
To enable  drill-down,  click the Drill Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the 
 button  if you are 
using  the toolbar  menu).
BIViewer Guide 202
To return  to the previous  detail  level (drill up), use the Drill Up button  (the 
 icon)  in the caption  of 
the Gauge  dashboard  item,  or the Drill Up command  in the Gauges  context  menu.
Layout
The Gauge  dashboard  item allows  you to specify  the number  of columns  or rows  in which  
individual  gauges  are arranged.
To control  how gauges  are arranged,  use the buttons  in the Content  Arrangement  group  of the 
Design  Ribbon  tab. By default,  the Auto Arrange  option  is enabled,  which  automatically  resizes  
gauges  to fit within  the dashboard  item.
BIViewer Guide 203
You can also specify  the number  of columns  in which  gauges  are arranged.  Click  the Arrange  in 
Columns  button  and specify  the appropriate  number  in the Count  field.
BIViewer Guide 204
Similarly,  you can arrange  pies in a specific  number  of rows  by clicking  the Arrange  in 
Rows button.
BIViewer Guide 205
Style
The Gauge  dashboard  item allows  you to select  the gauge  type.  The following  types  are 
supported:
Full Circular 
Half Circular 
BIViewer Guide 206
Left-Quarter  Circular 
Right- Quarter  Circular 
Three- Fourths  Circular 
Linear  Horizontal 
Linear  Vertical 
To select  the gauge  type,  use the buttons  in the Style  group  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 207
Pivot
The Pivot  dashboard  item displays  a cross- tabular  report  that presents  multi- dimensional  data in 
an easy- to-read format.
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Pivot  dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
Binding  to Data  in the Designer
The image  below  shows  a sample  Pivot  dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 208
To bind the Pivot  dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a placeholder  
contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  a Pivot's  data 
sections.
Section Description
Values Contains  Data  Items  used  to calculate  values  displayed  in the pivot  table.
Columns Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to label  columns.
Rows Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to label  rows.
Transposing  Columns  and Rows
The Pivot  dashboard  item provides  the capability  to transpose  pivot  columns  and rows.  In this 
case,  Data  Items  contained  in the Columns  section  are moved  to the Rows  section  and vice 
versa.
BIViewer Guide 209
To transpose  the selected  Pivot  dashboard  item,  use the Transpose  button  in the Home  ribbon  
tab.
Interactivity
This document  describes  the features  that enable  interaction  between  the Pivot  and other  
dashboard  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data- aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
Data  displayed  in the Pivot  dashboard  item can be filtered  by other  master  filter items.  You can 
prevent  the pivot  from being  affected  by other  master  filter items  using  the Ignore  Master  Filters  
button  on the Data  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 210
Conditional  Formatting
The Pivot  dashboard  item supports  the conditional  formatting  feature  that provides  the capability  
to apply  formatting  to cells whose  values  meet  the specified  condition.  This feature  allows  you to 
highlight  specific  cells or entire  rows/columns  using  a predefined  set of rules.  
Conditional  Formatting  Overview
The Pivot  dashboard  item allows  you to use conditional  formatting  to measures  placed  in the 
Values  section  and dimensions  placed  in the Columns/Rows  sections.  Note  that you can use 
hidden  measures  to specify  a condition  used  to apply  formatting  to visible  values.
Note  that you can use hidden  measures  to specify  a condition  used  to apply  formatting  to visible  
values.
New appearance  settings  are applied  to pivot  data cell or cells corresponding  to column/row  field 
values.
Create  a Format  Rule
To create  a new format  rule for the Pivot's  dimension/measure,  do one of the following:
BIViewer Guide 211
 lClick  the Options  button  next to the required  measure/dimension,  select  Add Format  Rule 
and choose  the condition.  Use the Edit Rules  dialog.
 lDepending  on the selected  format  condition,  the dialog  used  to create  a format  rule for Pivot  
contains  different  settings.  For instance,  the image  below  displays  the Greater  Than  dialog  
invoked  for the measure.
BIViewer Guide 212
This dialog  contains  the following  settings  specific  to Pivot.
Intersection  mode  specifies  the level on which  to apply  conditional  formatting  to pivot  cells.  The 
following  levels  are supported:
 lAuto : Identifies  the default  level.  For the Pivot  dashboard  item,  Auto identifies  the First 
Level.
 lFirst  Level : First level values  are used  to apply  conditional  formatting.
 lLast Level : The last level values  are used  to apply  conditional  formatting.
 lAll Levels : All pivot  data cells are used  to apply  conditional  formatting.
 lSpecific  Level : Values  from the specific  level are used  to apply  conditional  formatting.
If you specified  the Intersection  mode  as Specific  Level,  use the Row dimension  and Column  
dimension  combo  boxes  to set the specific  level.
The Apply  to row and Apply  to column  check  boxes  allow  you to specify  whether  to apply  the 
formatting  to the entire  pivot  row/column.
If you are creating  a new format  rule for the dimension  from the Column/Rows  section,  the 
corresponding  format  condition  dialog  would  not contain  any Pivot  specific  settings.
Edit a Format  Rule
To edit format  rules  for the current  Grid dashboard  item,  use the following  options:
 lClick  the Edit Rules  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab or use corresponding  item in the Pivot  
context  menu.  Click  the menu  button  or the required  data item and select  Edit Rules.
 lAll of these  actions  invoke  the Edit Rules  dialog  containing  existing  format  rules.  
BIViewer Guide 213
Layout
This topic  describes  how to control  the Pivot  dashboard  item layout,  the visibility  of totals  and 
grand  totals,  etc.
Layout  Type
If the Pivot  dashboard  item contains  a hierarchy  of dimensions  in the Rows  section,  you can 
specify  the layout  used  to arrange  values  corresponding  to individual  groups.
Layout  
TypeExample Description
Compact  
 Displays  values  from different  Row dimensions  in a single  
column.  Note  that in this case  totals  are shown  at the top of 
a group,  and you cannot  change  totals  position.
Tabular  
 Displays  values  from different  Row dimensions  in separate  
columns.
Use the Layout  button  in the Design  ribbon  tab to change  the Pivot  layout.
BIViewer Guide 214
Totals  Visibility
You can control  the visibility  of totals  and grand  totals  for the entire  Pivot  dashboard  item.  For 
instance,  the image  below  displays  the Pivot  dashboard  item with the disabled  row totals.
To manage  the visibility  of totals  and grand  totals,  use the Totals  and Grand  Totals  buttons  in the 
Design  ribbon  tab, respectively.
BIViewer Guide 215
These  buttons  invoke  a popup  menu  that allows  you to manage  the visibility  of column  and row 
totals/grand  totals  separately.  
Moreover,  you can control  the visibility  of totals  for individual  dimensions/measures  by using  the 
data item's  context  menu  (Show  Totals  and Show  Grand  Totals  options).
Totals  Position
If necessary,  you can change  the Pivot  dashboard  items  totals/grand  totals  position.  For instance,  
in the image  below  the row totals  are moved  from the bottom  to the top.
BIViewer Guide 216
To manage  totals  position,  use the Row  Totals  Position  and Column  Totals  Position  buttons  
in the Design  ribbon  tab.
Values  Visibility
The Pivot  dashboard  item can contain  several  measures  in the Values  section  to hide summary  
values  corresponding  to specific  measures.  For instance,  the image  below  shows  the Pivot  with 
hidden  Quantity  values.
BIViewer Guide 217
To do this, use the Show  Values  command  in the measure  menu.
BIViewer Guide 218
Values  Position
The Pivot  dashboard  item allows  you to control  the position  of headers  used  to arrange  summary  
values  corresponding  to different  measures.  For instance,  you can display  values  in columns  or 
rows.
To manage  this position,  use the Values  Position  button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
Rest  Layout  Options
To reset  layout  options,  click the Reset  Layout  Options  button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 219
Expanded  State
If the Columns  and Rows  section  contains  several  Data  Items,  the Pivot  column  and row headers  
are arranged  in a hierarchy  and make  up column  and row groups.
You can collapse  and expand  row and column  groups  using  the arrow  buttons.  However,  the 
current  expanded  state  of column  and row groups  do not save  in the dashboard  definition.  If 
necessary,  you can specify  the default  expanded  state  using  the Initial  State  button  in the Design  
ribbon  tab.
This button  invokes  the pop-up menu  that allows  you to select  whether  column  and row groups  
should  be collapsed  or expanded  by default.
BIViewer Guide 220
Choropleth  Map
The topics  in this section  describe  the features  available  in the Choropleth  Map dashboard  item.
The Choropleth  Map dashboard  item allows  you to colorize  the required  areas  in proportion  to the 
provided  values.
The Chloropleth  Map dashboard  item colorizes  map areas  in the following  two ways:
 lBased  on the values  provided.
BIViewer Guide 221
 lBy indicating  the difference  between  the actual  and target  values  of a particular  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 222
You can switch  between  the provided  values  using  the Values  button  (the 
icon)  in the map's  
caption  area,  or by using  the context  menu.
You can use the mouse  wheel  to change  the current  zoom  level for the map.  To scroll  the map,  
hold down  the left mouse  button  and drag it.
To move  to the initial  zooming  and scrolling  state,  select  the Initial  Extent  menu  item in the map's  
context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 223
The Choropleth  Map dashboard  item can display  a tooltip  that shows  information  on a hovered  
area.
Providing  Maps
This document  explains  how to use the default  BI Dashboard  maps,  or provide  custom  maps.
Default  Maps
The BI Dashboard  ships  with a set of default  maps  showing  various  parts  of the world.  The 
following  maps  are included:
BIViewer Guide 224
 l World  Countries: A  world  map
 lEurope
 lAsia 
 lNorth  America
 lSouth  America  
 lAfrica
 lUSA
 lCanada  
Note  that the World  Countries  map has a lower  level of detail  than maps  of specific  regions  and 
may not contain  some  countries.  As an alternative,  you can load a custom  map with the required  
granularity.
To select  the required  default  map,  use the Default  Map button  in the Open  group  of the Design  
ribbon  tab.
As an alternative,  use the corresponding  command  in the map context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 225
Custom  Maps
A Shapefile  vector  format  to provide  custom  maps.  Commonly,  this format  includes  two file types:
 l.shp file - holds  map shapes (points/lines/polygons).
 l.dbf file - contains  attributes  for each  shape.
To open  an existing  shapefile,  use the Load  Map or Import  Map button  in the Ribbon,  or the 
command  in the context  menu  (Load  Map or Import  Map).
In the invoked  dialog,  locate  the required  .shp file. Note  that custom  maps  created  in the Cartesian  
coordinate  system  are not supported.
If the map is opened  using  the Load  Map button,  the dashboard  XML definition  will contain  the 
path to a map shapefile.  If the map is opened  using  the Import  Map button,  the dashboard  XML 
definition  will contain  the map itself.
Map Attributes
After  you select  the default  map or a custom  map,  you can view supplemental  information  (such  
as the name  of the country,  state,  etc.).  To do this, click the Options  button  next to the Attribute  
placeholder.
BIViewer Guide 226
In the invoked  Map Attribute  Binding  dialog,  click Preview .
This table  displays  the available  attributes  for the current  map.  Each  set of attribute  values  is 
related  to a specific  map shape.
BIViewer Guide 227
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Choropleth  Map dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Choropleth  Map dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
To bind the Choropleth  Map dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a 
placeholder  contained  in one of the available  data sections.  The Choropleth  Map provides  two 
data item groups  for data binding:  Data  Items  and TOOLTIP  Data  Items.  Tables  below  list the 
available  data sections.
Data  Items
Attribute : Allows  you to associate  map shapes  with data source  field values.
BIViewer Guide 228
To associate  map shapes  with data source  field values,  drag- and-drop the required  dimension  to 
the data item's  placeholder  and select  the required  attribute  in the Map Attribute  Binding  dialog.  
To invoke  this dialog,  click the Options  button  (the 
 icon)  next to the Attribute  placeholder.
Select  the required  attribute  and click OK.
Maps : Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to color  map shapes.  Map shape  colors  vary 
based  on the map type.
Click  the Options  button  (the 
    or 
 icon depending  on the map type)  next to the Value  
placeholder  and select  the required  map type in the invoked  Choropleth  Map Options  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 229
 lIf you select  Value,  the Choropleth  map colors  map shapes  depending  on the values  
provided.  
 lIf you select  Delta,  the Choropleth  map colors  map shapes  depending  on the difference  
between  two values.  To learn  how to specify  delta  indication  settings,  see Delta.
You can fill several  data item containers  in the Maps  section  and use the Values  drop- down  menu  
to switch  between  the provided  values.  To invoke  the Values  menu,  click the icon in the 
dashboard  item caption.
Tooltip  Data  Items
Measures  : Allows  you to add supplementary  content  to the tooltips.  Drag  and drop the required  
measures  to provide  additional  data.
Map Coloring
The Choropleth  Map dashboard  item colors  map shapes  depending  on the data provided.  For 
instance,  you can visualize  a sales  amount  or population  density.
BIViewer Guide 230
Palette  and Scale  Settings
The Choropleth  Map automatically  selects  palette  and scale  settings  to color  map shapes.
If you need  to customize  these  settings,  click the Options  button  next to the data item that contains  
these  values.
This invokes  the Choropleth  Map Options  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 231
You can specify  the following  settings  in this window:
 lColor  palette : Allows  you to specify  the start and end color  of the palette.
 lScale  settings : Specifies  whether  a percent  scale  or an absolute  scale  is used  to define  a 
set of colors.  You can specify  the number  of levels  that represent  the number  of colors  used  
to color  the map.
 lPreview : Used  to display  a full set of palette  colors  generated  based  on the start/end  colors  
and the number  of levels.  Use the Allow  Edit check  box to automatically  change  the 
generated  colors  or specify  value  ranges  for each  color.
Also,  the Choropleth  Map allows  you to visualize  the difference  between  the actual  and target  
values  of a particular  parameter.  
BIViewer Guide 232
Delta
The Choropleth  Map allows  you to indicate  the difference  between  the actual  and target  values  of 
a particular  parameter.  This difference  is called  delta.
Delta  Options
To specify  delta  indication  settings,  click the Options  button  next to the data item container.
BIViewer Guide 233
This invokes  the Choropleth  Map Options  dialog.  When  the map type is set to Delta,  this dialog  
contains  the following  settings.
BIViewer Guide 234
Value  Type : You can specify  which  values  to display  within  map tooltips.  Use the Value  type 
combo  box to select  the value  that will be displayed  as the delta  value.
Actual value 
Absolute variation 
Percent variation 
Percent of target 
Result  Indication
You can specify  the condition  that will be used  to select  the indicator  color.  To do this, use the 
Result  indication  combo  box.
Greater  isgood 
Less is good 
Warning if greater  
BIViewer Guide 235
Warning if less 
Noindication 
Threshold  Type  and Threshold  Value
You can specify  that a required  indicator  should  only be displayed  when  the difference  between  
the actual  and target  values  exceeds  a specified  value.  For instance,  the actual  value  exceeds  the 
target  value  by 10%,  or by $2K.
Use the Threshold  type combo  box to select  whether  you wish to specify  the threshold  in 
percentage  values  or in absolute  values.  Then  use the Threshold  value  box to specify  the 
threshold  value.
Map Navigation
The Choropleth  Map dashboard  item allows  you to perform  navigation  actions  such  as zooming  
and scrolling.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to specify  the initial  zooming/scrolling  state  for the 
Choropleth  map using  the mouse.
You can disable  the capability  to scroll/zoom  the map using  the Lock  Navigation  button  in the 
Design  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 236
Use the Full Extent  button  to display  the entire  map within  the dashboard  item.
Interactivity
This document  describes  the Master  Filtering  feature,  which  enables  interaction  between  the 
Choropleth  Map and other  dashboard  items.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can click a shape  (or multiple  shapes  by holding  down  the 
CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  data related  to the selected  shape (s).
BIViewer Guide 237
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  (the 
 icon)  in the map's  caption , or the 
Clear  Master  Filter  command  in the map's  context  menu.
Labels
A Choropleth  map provides  the capability  to display  titles within  map shapes  and allows  you to 
manage  what  data to show  in the shape  tooltips.
To manage  map titles and tooltips,  click the Shape  Labels  button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
This invokes  the Shape  Label  Settings  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 238
In this dialog,  you can specify  attributes  whose  values  will be displayed  within  shapes  and tooltips.  
Use the magnifying  glass  button  to preview  the available  attributes  and their values  for the current  
map.
Shape  Tiles
The Title attribute  option  allows  you to select  the attribute  whose  values  are displayed  within  
corresponding  map shapes.
You can also use the Include  summary  value  option  to add summary  values  to shape  titles.
BIViewer Guide 239
Tooltips
The Choropleth  Map dashboard  item displays  a tooltip  that shows  information  related  to a 
hovered  shape.
You can choose  whether  to use a binding  attribute  to display  as the title of shape  tooltips  (the Use 
binding  attribute  option)  or specify  a custom  attribute  using  the Tooltip  attribute  option.
The Choropleth  Map also allows  you to add supplementary  content  to the tooltips  using  the 
Tooltip  Data  Items  area.  
Legend
A legend  is an element  of a map that shows  values  corresponding  to each  color.
BIViewer Guide 240
Visibility
To display  a legend  within  a map,  use the Show  Legend  button  in the Legend  group  of the Design  
Ribbon  tab.
Position  and Orientation
To specify  the legend's  position  and orientation,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the 
gallery  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 241
Geo Point  Maps
The topics  in this section  describe  various  types  of Geo Point  Map dashboard  items  that allow  you 
to place  callouts,  bubbles  or pies on the map using  geographical  coordinates.
The dashboard  supports  three  types  of Geo Point  maps:
 lThe Geo Point  Map dashboard  item allows  you to place  callouts  on the map using  
geographical  coordinates.
BIViewer Guide 242
 lThe Bubble  Map dashboard  item allows  you to place  bubbles  on the map.  Each  bubble  can 
represent  data via its weight  and color.
 lThe Pie Map dashboard  item allows  you to display  pies on the map.  Each  pie visualizes  the 
contribution  of each  value  to the total.
BIViewer Guide 243
Map Zooming  and Scrolling
You can use the mouse  wheel  to change  the current  zoom  level for a map.  To scroll  the map,  hold 
down  the left mouse  button  and drag it.
To move  to the initial  zooming  and scrolling  state,  click the Initial  Extent  menu  item in the map's  
context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 244
A Geo Point  Map dashboard  item can display  a tooltip  that shows  information  on a hovered  
callout/bubble/pie.
Map Types  Overview
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to create  three  types  of Geo Point  maps.
The Geo Point  Map dashboard  item allows  you to place  callouts  on the map using  geographical  
coordinates.
The Bubble  Map dashboard  item allows  you to place  bubbles  on the map.  Each  bubble  can 
represent  data using  its weight  and color.
BIViewer Guide 245
The Pie Map dashboard  item allows  you to display  pies on the map.  Each  pie visualizes  the 
contribution  of each  value  to the total.
To create  the required  Geo Point  Map dashboard  item,  use the Geo Point  Maps  button  in the 
Home  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 246
Providing  Maps
This document  explains  how to use the BI Dashboard  maps  or provide  custom  maps.
Default  Maps
The BI Dashboard  contains  a set of default  maps  showing  various  parts  of the world.  The 
following  maps  are included:
 lWorld  Countries  
 lEurope
 lAsia
 lNorth  America  
 lSouth  America
 lAfrica  
 lUSA 
 lCanada  
BIViewer Guide 247
NOTE:   The World  Countries  map has a lower  level of detail  than maps  of specific  
regions  and may not contain  some  countries.  As an alternative,  you can load a custom  
map with the required  granularity.
To select  the default  map,  use the Default  Map button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
As an alternative,  use the corresponding  command  in the map's  context  menu.
Custom  Maps
A Shapefile  vector  format  to provide  custom  maps.  Commonly,  this format  includes  two file 
types:
 l.shp file - holds  map shapes  (points/lines/polygons).
 l.dbf file - contains  attributes  for each  shape.
To open  an existing  shapefile,  use the Load  Map or Import  Map button  in the Ribbon,  or the 
command  in the context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 248
If the map is opened  using  the Load  Map button,  the dashboard  XML definition  will contain  the 
path to a map shapefile.  If the map is opened  using  the Import  Map button,  the dashboard  XML 
definition  will contain  the map itself.
Geo Point  Map
The Geo Point  Map dashboard  item allows  you to place  callouts  on the map using  geographical  
coordinates.
BIViewer Guide 249
Providing  Data
This topic  describes  how to bind the Geo Point  Map dashboard  item to data using  the Dashboard  
Designer.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  The only difference  is in the data sections  that these  dashboard  items  have.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Geo Point  Map dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
Note  that the Geo Point  Map provides  two data item groups  for data binding:  Data  Items  and 
TOOLTIP  Data  Items.  Tables  below  list the available  data sections.
Data  Items
Section Description
Latitude Accepts  a dimension  used  to provide  geographic  latitude.
BIViewer Guide 250
Section Description
Longitude Accepts  a dimension  used  to provide  geographic  longitude.
Value Accepts  values  related  to geographic  points.  These  values  are displayed  
within  map callouts.
Tooltip  Data  Items
Section Description
Dimensions Accepts  dimensions  allowing  you to add supplementary  content  to the 
tooltips.
Measures Accepts  measures  allowing  you to add summaries  to the tooltips.
Interactivity
This document  describes  the capabilities  that enable  interaction  between  Geo Point  maps  and 
other  dashboard  items.  These  capabilities  include  Master  Filtering.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can click a callout/bubble/pie  (or multiple  
callouts/bubbles/pies  by holding  down  the CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  
data related  to the selected  callout (s)/bubble (s)/ pie(s).
BIViewer Guide 251
You can also select  multiple  callouts/bubbles/pies  in the following  way.
 lHold the Shift key and the left mouse  button
 lDrag  the mouse  pointer,  to mark  an area that includes  the desired  elements
 lRelease  the left mouse  button.  All elements  within  the area will be selected
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  (the 
 icon)  in the Map's  caption  area,  or the 
Clear  Master  Filter  command  in the context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 252
Bubble  Map
The Bubble  Map dashboard  item allows  you to place  bubbles  on the map.  Each  bubble  can 
represent  data using  its weight  and color.
Providing  Data
This topic  describes  how to bind the Bubble  Map dashboard  item to data using  the Dashboard  
Designer.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  The only difference  is in the data sections  that these  dashboard  items  have.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Bubble  Map dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 253
Note  that the Bubble  Map provides  two data item groups  for data binding:  Data  Items  and 
TOOLTIP  Data  Items.  Tables  below  list the available  data sections.
Data  Items
The Bubble  Map dashboard  item automatically  selects  palette  and scale  settings  used  to color  
bubbles.  To customize  these  settings,  click the Options  button  next to the Color  placeholder.  This 
invokes  the Color  Scale  Options  dialog,  which  allows  you to specify  the palette  and scale  options.
Latitude : Accepts  a dimension  used  to provide  geographic  latitude.
 Longitude : Accepts  a dimension  used  to provide  geographic  longitude.  
Weight : Accepts  a measure  used  to evaluate  the bubble's  weight.
Color : Accepts  a measure  used  to evaluate  the bubble's  color.
BIViewer Guide 254
Tooltip  Data  Items
Dimensions : Accepts  dimensions  allowing  you to add supplementary  content  to the tooltips.
Measures : Accepts  measures  allowing  you to add summaries  to the tooltips.
Coloring
The Bubble  Map dashboard  item automatically  selects  palette  and scale  settings  used  to color  
bubbles  depending  on the provided  values.
To customize  these  settings,  click the Options  button  next to the Color  placeholder.  This invokes  
the Color  Scale  Options  dialog,  which  allows  you to specify  the palette  and scale  options.
BIViewer Guide 255
You can specify  the following  settings  in this window:
Color  palette : Allows  you to specify  the start and end color  of the palette
Scale  setting : Specifies  whether  a percent  scale  or an absolute  scale  is used  to define  a set of 
colors.  You can specify  the number  of levels  that represent  the number  of colors  used  to color  the 
map.
Preview : Used  to display  a full set of palette  colors  generated  based  on the start/end  colors  and 
the number  of levels.  Use the Allow  Edit check  box to automatically  change  the generated  colors  
or specify  value  ranges  for each  color.
BIViewer Guide 256
Legends
Bubble  Map provides  two types  of legends  used  to identify  map objects  - color  and weighted  
legends.  
Color  Legend
The color  legend  helps  you to identify  which  colors  correspond  to specific  values.
To display  a color  legend  within  a map,  use the Show  Color  Legend  button  in the Color  Legend  
section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
To specify  the legend's  position  and orientation,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the 
gallery  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 257
Weighted  Legend
The weighted  legend  allows  you to identify  values  corresponding  to specific  bubble  sizes.
To select  the required  weighted  legend  type,  use the Show  Weighted  Legend  button  in the 
Weighted  Legend  section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 258
To specify  the legend's  position,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the gallery  in the 
Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 259
Pie Map
The Pie Map dashboard  item allows  you to display  pies on the map.  Each  pie visualizes  the 
contribution  of each  value  to the total.
Providing  Data
This topic  describes  how to bind the Pie Map dashboard  item to data using  the Dashboard  
Designer.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  The only difference  is in the data sections  that these  dashboard  items  have.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Pie Map dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 260
Note  that the Pie Map provides  two data item groups  for data binding:  Data  Items  and Tooltip  Data  
Items.  Tables  below  list the available  data sections.
Data  Items
Section Description
Latitude Accepts  a dimension  used  to provide  geographic  latitude.
Longitude Accepts  a dimension  used  to provide  geographic  longitude.
BIViewer Guide 261
Values Accepts  measures  used  to calculate  pie values.  In case  of negative  
measure  values,  Pie Map uses  their absolute  values.  If you added  a data 
item to the Argument  section  and several  Data  Items  to the Values  section,  
you can use the Values  drop- down  menu  to switch  between  the provided  
values.  To invoke  the Values  menu,  click the icon in the map's  caption  or 
use the map's  context  menu.
Argument Allows  you to provide  data for pie arguments.
Section Description
Dimensions Accepts  dimensions  allowing  you to add supplementary  content  to the 
tooltips.
Measures Accepts  measures  allowing  you to add summaries  to the tooltips.
Pie Options
The Pie Map dashboard  item allows  you to take into account  the weight  of pies.  In this case,  the 
relative  sizes  of the pies depend  on the corresponding  summary  values.
BIViewer Guide 262
To enable  this capability,  use the Weighted  Pies button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
Coloring
Certain  dashboard  items  provide  the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by associating  
dimension  values/  measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  
scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  scheme  for each  
dashboard  item.  
The Pie Map dashboard  item allows  you to manage  the coloring  of segments  corresponding  to 
various  dimension  values/measures.  For instance,  the image  below  illustrates  the Pie Map 
dashboard  item whose  argument  values  are colored  by hue.
BIViewer Guide 263
Legends
The Pie Map provides  two types  of legends  used  to identify  map objects  - color  and weighted  
legends.
Color  Legend
The color  legend  helps  you to identify  which  colors  correspond  to specific  argument  values.
BIViewer Guide 264
To display  a color  legend  within  a map,  use the Show  Color  Legend  button  in the Color  Legend  
section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
To specify  the legend's  position  and orientation,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the 
gallery  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
Weighted  Legend
The weighted  legend  allows  you to identify  values  corresponding  to specific  pie sizes.
BIViewer Guide 265
The Pie Map dashboard  item does  not display  the weighted  legend  if weighed  pies are disabled.
To select  the required  weighted  legend  type,  use the Show  Weighted  Legend  button  in the 
Weighted  Legend  section  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
To specify  the legend's  position,  select  one of the predefined  options  from the gallery  in the 
Design  Ribbon  tab.
Clustering
When  a Geo Point  map contains  a large  number  of objects  (callouts,  bubbles  or pies),  showing  
each  object  individually  on the map is not useful.  The Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  
to group  neighboring  map objects.  This feature  is called  Clustering.
For instance,  the Geo Point  Map dashboard  item combines  callouts  to bubbles.
BIViewer Guide 266
The Bubble  Map and Pie Map dashboard  items  cluster  bubbles/pies  with other  bubbles/pies.
To enable  clustering  in the Designer,  use the Enable  Clustering  button  in the Data  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 267
Interactivity
This document  describes  the Master  Filtering  capability,  which  enables  interaction  between  the 
Geo Point  Map and other  dashboard  items.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
When  Master  Filtering  is enabled,  you can click a callout/bubble/pie  (or multiple  
callouts/bubbles/pies  by holding  down  the CTRL  key) to make  other  dashboard  items  only display  
data related  to the selected  callout (s)/bubble (s)/pie (s).
When  you select  a clustered  bubble  or pie, master  filtering  is applied  by all points  that are 
clustered  into this bubble/pie.
To reset  filtering,  use the Clear  Master  Filter  button  in the map's  caption,  or the Clear  Master  
Filter  command  in the context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 268
Labels
Geo Point  maps  provide  the capability  to display  titles within  map shapes  and allows  you to add 
supplementary  content  to the callout/bubble/pie  tooltips.
Shape  Tiles
To manage  map titles,  click the Shape  Title button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
This invokes  the Shape  Title Settings  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 269
In this dialog,  you can specify  attributes  whose  values  will be displayed  within  shapes.  Use the 
 
button  to preview  the available  attributes  and their values  for the current  map.
The Title attribute  option  allows  you to select  the attribute  whose  values  are displayed  within  
corresponding  map shapes.
Tooltips
Geo Point  maps  also allow  you to add supplementary  content  to the callout/bubble/pie  tooltips  
using  the TooltipData  Items  area.  To learn  more,  see the Tooltip  Data  Items  paragraph  in the 
Providing  Data  topic.
Map Navigation
Geo Point  maps  allow  you to perform  navigation  actions  such  as zooming  and scrolling.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to specify  the initial  zooming/scrolling  state  for the Geo Point  
map using  the mouse.  You can disable  the capability  to scroll/zoom  the map using  the Lock  
Navigation  button  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 270
Use the Full Extent  button  to display  the entire  map within  the dashboard  item.
BIViewer Guide 271
Range  Filter
The Range  Filter  dashboard  item allows  you to apply  filtering  to other  dashboard  items.  This item 
displays  a chart  with selection  thumbs  that allow  you to filter out values  displayed  along  the 
argument  axis.
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.
The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has. This topic  
describes  how to bind a Range  Filter  dashboard  item to data in the Designer.
The image  below  shows  a sample  Range  Filter  dashboard  item that is bound  to data.
BIViewer Guide 272
To bind the Range  Filter  dashboard  item to data,  drag and drop a data source  field to a 
placeholder  contained  in one of the available  data sections.  A table  below  lists and describes  
Range  Filter  data sections.
Section Description
Values Contains  Data  Items  against  which  the Y-coordinates  of data points  are 
calculated.
Argument Contains  a data item that provides  values  displayed  along  the horizontal  
axis of the Range  Filter.  Filtering  is performed  based  on these  values.  Note  
that the Option  s button  (the icon)  allows  you to create  predefined  ran ges 
used  to select  the required  date-  time interval.
Series Contains  Data  Items  whose  values  are used  to create  chart  series.
Series
The Range  Filter  dashboard  item supports  various  Line and Area  series  types.
To switch  between  series  types  in the Designer,  click the options  button  next to the required  data 
item in the Values  section.  In the invoked  Series  Type  dialog,  select  the required  series  type and 
click OK.
BIViewer Guide 273
You can also do this using  the buttons  in the Series  Type  group  of the Design  Ribbon  tab.
The Range  Filter  supports  the following  series  types:
Line  
Stacked  Line  
BIViewer Guide 274
Full-Stacked  Line  
Area  
Stacked  Area  
Full-Stacked  Area  
Interactivity
This document  describes  the features  that enable  interaction  between  the Range  Filter  and other  
dashboard  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data- aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  
Master  filtering  is always  enabled  for the Range  Filter  dashboard  item.  This Range  Filter  displays  
a chart  with selection  thumbs  that allow  you to filter out values  displayed  along  the argument  axis.
BIViewer Guide 275
To enable  filtering  across  data sources  for the Range  Filter,  use the Cross- Data- Source  Filtering  
button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab.
You can enable/disable  ignoring  of other  master  filter items  using  the Ignore  Master  Filters  button  
in the Data  Ribbon  tab.
Predefined  Ranges
The Range  Filter  dashboard  item allows  you to add a number  of predefined  date- time periods  that 
can be used  to perform  a selection  (for instance,  year- to-date or quarter- to-date).
To add a period,  click the Options  button (the 
   icon)  next to the Argument  placeholder  or use 
the Edit Periods  button  in the ribbon's  Design  tab. This invokes  the Edit Periods  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 276
To add the selected  period,  use the 
 button  or double- click this period.
This period  will be added  to the right pane  of the Edit Periods  dialog.  The following  settings  are 
available  for the added  period:
BIViewer Guide 277
 lCaption : Specifies  the caption  corresponding  to the period.
 lPeriod : Displays  the date- time interval  corresponding  to the period.
 lDefault : Allows  you to use the selected  period  as the default  selection  in the Range  Filter  
dashboard  item.
If necessary,  you can customize  the selected  period  by clicking  the Edit button  in the Edit Periods  
dialog.  This invokes  the Period  dialog.
Note  that the Edit dialog  above  contains  the displayed  periods  (Year,  Quarter,  Month,  Day)  if the 
group  interval  of the Range  Filter  argument  is set to Day- Month- Year.
This dialog  allows  you to add the following  periods:
BIViewer Guide 278
 lYear :  A period  duration  is measured  in years.  
 oPrevious  Year : Identifies  the entire  previous  year.
 o This Year : Identifies  the entire  current  year.
 oNext  Year : Identifies  the entire  next year.
 oLast Years : Identifies  a specific  number  of previous  years.  Use the Include  current  
option  to specify  whether  or not the period  is ended  with the current  year.
 oNext  Years : Identifies  a specific  number  of next years.  Use the Include  current  option  
to specify  whether  or not the period  is started  from the current  year.
 oYear- to-date: A period  from the beginning  of the current  year and up to the current  
day.
 lQuarter : Period  duration  is measured  in quarters.  
 oPrevious  Quarter : Identifies  the entire  previous  quarter.  
 oThis Quarter : Identifies  the entire  current  quarter.
 oNext  Quarter : Identifies  the entire  next quarter.
 oLast Quarters : Identifies  a specific  number  of previous  quarters.  Use the Include  
current  option  to specify  whether  or not the period  ends  with the current  quarter.
 oNext  Quarters : Identifies  a specific  number  of following  quarters.  Use the Include  
current  option  to specify  whether  or not the period  starts  from the current  quarter.
 oQuarter- to-date: A period  from the beginning  of the current  quarter  and up to the 
current  day.
BIViewer Guide 279
 lMonth : Period  duration  is measured  in months.  
 oPrevious  Month : Identifies  the entire  previous  month.  
 oThis Month : Identifies  the entire  current  month.
 oNext  Month : Identifies  the entire  next month.
 oLast Months : Identifies  a specific  number  of previous  months.  Use the Include  
current  option  to specify  whether  or not the period  ends  with the current  month.
 oNext  Months : Identifies  a specific  number  of the following  months.  Use the Include  
current  option  to specify  whether  or not the period  starts  with the current  month.
 oMonth- to-date: A period  from the beginning  of the current  month  and up to the 
current  day.
 lDay: Period  duration  is measured  in days.  
 oPrevious  Day: Identifies  the entire  previous  day. 
 oThis Day: Identifies  the entire  current  day.
 oNext  Day: Identifies  the entire  next day.
 oLast Day: Identifies  a specific  number  of previous  days.  Use the Include  current  
option  to specify  whether  or not the period  ends  with the current  day.
 oNext  Days : Identifies  a specific  number  of the following  days.  Use the Include  current  
option  to specify  whether  or not the period  starts  with the current  day.
 lCustom : A custom  period.  Allows  you to specify  a period  with the custom  boundaries  
BIViewer Guide 280
You can specify  the following  settings  for the start/end  boundaries:
 lNone : The selection  will begin  from the start/end  of the visible  range.  
 lFixed : Allows  you to select  a specific  date value  using  the calendar.
 lFlow : Allows  you to select  a relative  date value.  The Interval  option  specifies  the interval  
between  the current  date and the required  date.  The Offset  option  allows  you to set the 
number  of such  intervals.
Note  that the Offset  option  can accept  negative  and positive  values.  Negative  values  correspond  
to dates  before  the current  date,  while  positive  values  correspond  to future  dates.
BIViewer Guide 281
Coloring
Certain  dashboard  items  provide  the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by associating  
dimension  values/  measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  
scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  scheme  for each  
dashboard  item.
By default,  the Range  Filter  dashboard  item colors  different  measures  and series  dimensions  by 
hue. The image  below  illustrates  the Range  Filter  dashboard  item whose  series  points  
corresponding  to different  categories  are colored  in different  colors.
Images
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to add images  to a dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 282
You can either  add a static  image  or you can use the Bound  Image  as a detail  item along  with the 
Master  Filtering  feature.
Image  Types  Overview
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to create  two types  of an Image  dashboard  item.  The Image  
dashboard  item allows  you to add static  images  to a dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 283
The Bound  Image  dashboard  item can be bound  to a set of images  (for instance,  stored  in the 
database).  You can use the Bound  Image  as a detail  item along  with the Master  Filtering  feature.
To create  the required  Image  dashboard  item,  use the Images  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 284
Providing  Images
Static  Images
To load an image  to a dashboard  item,  use the Load  Image  and Import  Image  buttons  in the 
Ribbon,  or commands  in the context  menu  (Load  Image  and Import  Image  respectively).
These  commands  invoke  the Open  dialog,  which  allows  you to locate  the desired  image.
The Load  Image  command  saves  the path to the image  in the dashboard  definition,  while  the 
Import  Image  command  saves  the image  itself.
Binding  the Bound  Image  to Data
The Bound  Image  dashboard  item provides  the Attribute  data section  containing  the 
corresponding  placeholder.
BIViewer Guide 285
Specify  the binding  mode  for the Bound  Image  by clicking  the Options  button  (the icon)  next to the 
Attribute  placeholder.  This invokes  the following  dialog:
This dialog  provides  two options:
BIViewer Guide 286
 lBinary  Array : Use  this mode  if images  are stored  in the data source  as byte arrays.
 lURI: Use  this mode  to locate  images  accessible  by a predefined  URI. In this case,  the data 
source  field should  return  strings  that are parts  of URIs  to these  images.
For instance,  the URI pattern  in the form below  specifies  the path to the folder  containing  the 
required  images.
Data  source  field values  will be inserted  to the position  of the {0} placeholder.  Thus,  the Bound  
Image  maps  the current  dimension  value  with the image  placed  at the specified  URI.
Note  that the Bound  Image  can display  only a single  image  simultaneously.  If Master  Filtering  is 
not applied  to the Bound  Image,  it selects  the displayed  image  in the following  ways:
 lIn the Binary  Array  mode,  the displayed  image  cannot  be predicted  precisely  as a result  of 
sorting  limitations  for the image/binary  data types.  Use the Master  Filtering  feature  to 
display  the specified  image.
BIViewer Guide 287
 lIn the URI mode,  the Bound  Image  displays  an image  corresponding  a first attribute  value  
taking  into account  the attribute's  sort order.
Interactivity
This document  describes  the features  that enable  interaction  between  the Bound  Image  and other  
dashboard  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use most  of the data- aware  dashboard  items  as a filter for other  
dashboard  items  ( Master  Filter).
Data  displayed  in the Bound  Image  dashboard  item can be filtered  by other  master  filter items.  For 
instance,  the Bound  Image  below  shows  an image  corresponding  to a category  selected  in the 
Grid dashboard  item.
You can prevent  the Bound  Image  from being  affected  by other  master  filter items  using  the 
Ignore  Master  Filters  button  on the Data  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 288
Image  Settings
You can customize  the representation  of Image  and Bound  Image  dashboard  items  in different  
ways.
Image  Aligntment
To specify  how the image  is aligned  within  the dashboard  item,  use the Alignment  group  in the 
Design  ribbon  tab.
Image  Size Mode
You can specify  the image  size mode  that defines  how the image  fits within  the dashboard  item.  
To do this, use the Size Mode  group  in the Ribbon's  Design  tab.
BIViewer Guide 289
The following  table  illustrates  each  size mode  in two cases:  when  the image  is smaller  than the 
dashboard  item,  and vice versa.
 
Size Mode Image  Smaller  
than 
Dashboard  
ItemImage  Larger  
than 
Dashboard  
ItemDescription
Clipped  
  
  The image  is clipped  if it is larger  
than the Image  dashboard  item.  
 
Stretch
 The image  is 
stretched  or 
shrunk  to fit the 
size of the 
Image  
dashboard  
item.
BIViewer Guide 290
Squeeze
 If the 
dimensions  of 
the Image  
dashboard  item 
exceed  those  of 
the image  it 
contains,  the 
image  is shown  
in full-size. 
Other  wise,  the 
image  is 
resized  to fit the 
dimensions  of 
the Image  
dashboard  
item.  
Zoom  
  
 The image  is sized  proportionally  (without  clipping),  so 
that it best fits the Image  dashboard  item.  If the aspect  
ratio of the Image  dashboard  item is the same  as the 
aspect  ratio of the image,  it will be resized  to fit into the 
Image  dashboard  item while  maintaining  its aspect  ratio.  
Otherwise,  the image  will be resized  in the closest  fitting  
dimension  (either  the height  or the width),  and the 
remaining  dimension  will be resized  while  maintaining  
the image'  s aspect  ratio.
BIViewer Guide 291
Text Box
Use the Text Box dashboard  item to display  rich text within  a dashboard.
You can either  add a static  text or you can use the Text Box as a detail  item along  with the Master  
Filtering  or Filtering  features.
Editing  Text
To edit the text within  the Text Box, click the Edit button  in the ribbon's  Design  tab or use the 
corresponding  item in the context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 292
This adds  the Text Box Editor  context  category  to the Dashboard  Designer's  ribbon  and allows  
you to modify  the content  within  the Text Box.
To learn  how to edit the content  within  the Text Box, see Rich Text Editor.  After  you change  the 
document,  click Edit again  to finish  editing.
Note  that the Text Box can be bound  to data.  To learn  how to do this, see Providing  Data.
Providing  Data
The Text Box dashboard  item can be bound  to data as other  data- aware  dashboard  items.  To do 
this, perform  the following  steps:
BIViewer Guide 293
 1.  Drop  the Name,  RetailPrice  and Description  data source  fields  from the Products  table  to 
the Values  section  of the Text Box.
Note  that summary  types  of the created  measures  are Min, Sum and Min, respectively.
 2. Click  the Edit button  in the Design  ribbon  tab and add the Name,  RetailPrice  and 
Description  strings  to the document.
 3. Place  the pointer  next to Name,  right- click the document  and select  Insert  Field  (or use the 
Insert  Field  button  in the ribbon).  Then,  click the Select  value  placeholder  and select  the 
Name  (Min)  measure.
BIViewer Guide 294
 4. Perform  the third step for Retail  Price  and Description.
 
 5. Click  the Edit button  again  to leave  the editing  mode.  The Text Box will show  data in the 
following  way:
 
You can use this Text Box as a detail  item along  with the Master  Filtering  feature  to filter data 
according  to the selected  product.
BIViewer Guide 295
Interactivity
This document  describes  the features  that enable  interaction  between  the Text Box and other  
dashboard  items.  These  features  include  Master  Filtering.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use most  of the data- aware  dashboard  items  as a filter for other  
dashboard  items  (Master  Filter).  
Data  displayed  in the Text Box dashboard  item can be filtered  by other  master  filter items.  For 
instance,  the Text Box below  shows  data corresponding  to a product  selected  in the List Box 
dashboard  item.
You can prevent  the Text Box from being  affected  by other  master  filter items  using  the Ignore  
Master  Filters  button  on the Data  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 296
BIViewer Guide 297
Image
The Image  dashboard  item is used  to display  images  within  a dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 298
Text Box
The Text Box dashboard  item is used  to display  rich text within  a dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 299
Treemap
Use the Treemap  dashboard  item to visualize  data in nested  rectangles  that are called  tiles.
The Treemap  displays  labels  that contain  descriptions  for tiles and groups,  and provide  tooltips  
with additional  information.
BIViewer Guide 300
Providing  Data
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a virtually  uniform  
manner.  The only difference  is in the data sections  that the required  dashboard  item has.
The Treemap  dashboard  item has the Values  and Arguments  data sections  that provide  numeric  
and discrete  categorical  data,  respectively.  The steps  below  provide  the most  common  scenarios  
of binding  a Treemap  to data.
 1. Drop  the Sales  and Profit  fields  to the Values  section.  The Treemap  will draw  two tiles 
whose  sizes  correspond  to the Sales  and Profit  summary  values.
 2. Drop  the Product  Category  field to Arguments.  The Treemap  will create  individual  tiles for 
all categories.  You can switch  between  Sales  and Profit  values  by clicking  the icon 
 in 
the item's  caption  or you can use its context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 301
 3. Drop  the child Product  Sub- Category  field into Arguments.  The Treemap  will visualize  all 
combinations  of categories  and corresponding  sub-categories  using  individual  tiles.
 4. If the Arguments  section  contains  several  dimensions,  you can group  child tiles by values  of 
the parent  dimension.  To group  sub-categories  inside  corresponding  categories,  click the 
Category  Name  menu  button  and select  Group  Tiles . Sub- category  tiles will be grouped  
into category  groups.
BIViewer Guide 302
Layout
This topic  describes  how to change  a layout  algorithm  used  to arrange  Treemap  tiles. To do this in 
the Designer,  use buttons  from the Layout  group  placed  in the Design  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 303
The following  algorithms  are available:
Algorithm Example Description
Slice  and Dice  
 This layout  algorithm  divides  the 
space  between  items,  slicing  it in the 
specified  direction  depending  on item 
value.  
Squarified  
 The Squarified  algorithm  arranges
tiles so that their width/height  ratio will
 be closer  to 1.
BIViewer Guide 304
Striped
 This algorithm  is a modified  version  of the
 Squarified  algorithm.  The difference  here is that
 tiles are drawn  side by side as columns  or rows.
You can also set a layout  direction  to specify  an arrangement  of tiles depending  on their sizes.  To 
do this, click the Layout  Direction  button  and select  the required  direction.
Grouping
If you use several  arguments  in the Treemap,  you can group  tiles corresponding  to child values  by 
parent  values.  For instance,  the following  Treemap  dashboard  item displays  combinations  of 
categories  and sub-categories.
BIViewer Guide 305
To group  sub-categories  inside  corresponding  categories,  click the Product  Category  menu  
button  and select  Group  Tiles .
Product  tiles will be grouped  into category  groups.
BIViewer Guide 306
Note  that the 
icon will be displayed  within  the Product  Category  dimension.
Coloring
Certain  dashboard  items  provide  the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by associating  
dimension  values/  measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  
scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  scheme  for each  
dashboard  item.  
By default,  the Treemap  dashboard  item colors  its tiles in the following  way:
 lIf the Treemap  dashboard  item contains  only measures  (the Values  section),  values  
corresponding  to different  measures  are colored  by hue.
 lIf the Treemap  dashboard  item contains  arguments  (the Arguments  section),  values  
corresponding  to the first argument  are colored  by hue.
If necessary,  you can change  the default  behavior.  For instance,  the image  below  shows  the 
Treemap  dashboard  item whose  measures  and argument  values  are painted  with the same  color.
BIViewer Guide 307
Labels
The Treemap  displays  labels  that contain  descriptions  for tiles and groups , and provide  tooltips  
with additional  information.
You can specify  which  information  should  be displayed  within  tile and group  labels  separately.  To 
do this, use the Labels  and Tooltips  buttons  in the Design  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 308
Use buttons  within  the Tile Labels/Group  Labels  ribbon  groups  to manage  tile and group  labels,  
respectively.  These  buttons  invoke  the drop- down  menu,  which  is similar  for all buttons.
BIViewer Guide 309
Filter  Elements
Filter  elements  represent  a special  type of dashboard  item that allows  you to apply  filtering  to 
other  dashboard  items.
Filter  Elements  Overview
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to create  three  types  of filter elements  that provide  the 
capability  to filter other  dashboard  items.
To add the required  filter element  to the dashboard,  use the Filter  Elements  button  in the Home  
ribbon  tab.
Combo  Box
The Combo  Box dashboard  item allows  you to select  a value (s) from the drop- down  list. You can 
switch  the combo  box type in the ribbon  Design  tab.
BIViewer Guide 310
Combo  
Box TypeExample Description
Standard  
 Allows  you to select  only a single  value.
Checked
 Allows  you to select  multiple  values  in the invoked  drop-
down  list.
List Box
The List Box dashboard  item allows  you to select  a value (s) from the list. You can switch  the list 
box type in the ribbon  Design  tab.
BIViewer Guide 311
List Box Type  Example Description
Checked  
 Allows  you to select  multiple  values  in the list box.
Radio  
 Allows  you to select  only a single  value  in the radio  
group.
Tree  View
The Tree View  dashboard  item displays  values  in a hierarchical  way and allows  you to 
expand/collapse  nodes.
BIViewer Guide 312
You can manage  the initial  expanded  state  of filter values  using  the Auto Expand  button  in the 
Design  ribbon  tab.
Providing  Data
This topic  describes  how to bind filter elements  to data using  the Dashboard  Designer.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to bind various  dashboard  items  to data in a consistent  
manner,  the only difference  being  the data sections  that these  dashboard  items  comprise.
Binding  Overview
All filter elements  provide  the Dimensions  data section,  which  accepts  dimensions  used  to provide  
filter values.  To learn  about  the specifics  of binding  various  filter elements  to data,  see the table  
below.
BIViewer Guide 313
Dashboard  
ItemData  
SectionsDescription
Combo  Box
 The Combo  Box filter element  can contain  
several  dimensions  at the Dimensions  data 
section.  In this case,  the drop-  down  list will 
contain  combinations  of dimension  values.
List Box
 The List Box filter element  can contain  
several  dimensions  at the Dimensions  data 
section.  In this case,  the list will contain  
combinations  of dimension  values.
Tree View
 The Tree View  filter element  allows  you to 
display  dimension  values  in a hierarchical  
way. This can be the set of dimensions  with 
different  group  intervals  (for instance,  Year/  
Quarter/  Month)  or the set of related  
dimensions  (for instance,  geographical  data 
such  as continents/  countries/  cities).
Interactivity
This document  describes  the filtering  capabilities  supported  by filter elements.  You can use filter 
elements  to apply  master  filtering  to other  dashboard  items  or introduce  hierarchical  filtering  by 
adding  several  connected  filters.
BIViewer Guide 314
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).
Note  that filter elements  do not support  Master  Filter  selection  modes.  You can switch  the 
selection  mode  by changing  the type of the required  filter element.
Depending  on the filter element  type,  you can select  a value (s) to make  other  dashboard  items  
display  only data related  to the selected  value (s).
You can also create  a set of related  filter elements  containing  relevant  filter values.  For instance,  
in the image  below,  the State/Province  filter element  contains  states  related  to the 'United  States'  
value,  while  the City filter element  contains  cities  related  to the 'New  York'  value.
BIViewer Guide 315
Disable  the Ignore  Master  Filters  option  for the required  filter element  to allow  applying  filtering  to 
this element.
Filter  Element  Options
Filter  elements  provide  the capability  to specify  whether  to enable  the (All) option  that allows  you 
to apply  filtering  by all values.  To do this, use the Show  'All' Value  button  in the Design  ribbon  
tab.
NOTE:  This capability  is supported  by the 'Standard'  Combo  Box and 'Radio'  List Box 
filter elements.
BIViewer Guide 316
Dashboard  Item Group
The BI Dashboard  provides  the capability  to combine  dashboard  items  into a group.  The 
dashboard  item group  serves  two main  purposes:
 lCombine  dashboard  items  within  the dashboard  into a separate  layout  group.  
 lManage  interaction  between  dashboard  items  within  and outside  the group.
For instance,  you can combine  related  filter elements  and data visualization  dashboard  items  into 
a group.
Create  a Group
To create  a new group,  use the Group  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 317
You can add dashboard  items  to a group  and manage  item layout  using  drag- and-drop.  
Note  that a dashboard  item group  cannot  be added  to another  group.
Interactivity
The dashboard  item group  provides  the capability  to manage  interactions  between  dashboard  
items  within  and outside  the group.
The Master  Filter  button  allows  you to specify  whether  the current  group  allows  you to filter 
external  dashboard  items  using  master  filter items  contained  within  the group.  If this option  is 
disabled,  master  filter items  contained  within  the group  can filter only dashboard  items  from this 
group.
The Ignore  Master  Filters  button  allows  you to isolate  dashboard  items  contained  within  the 
group  from being  filtered  using  external  master  filter items.
Data  Shaping
This section  describes  how to perform  various  data shaping  operations  (such  as grouping,  sorting  
and filtering)  in the Dashboard  Designer.
Summarization
To obtain  numeric  values  that should  be displayed  within  a dashboard  item,  Dashboard  calculates  
a summary  function  against  the specified  measure.
BIViewer Guide 318
This topic  describes  how to specify  which  summary  function  should  be calculated  against  a 
particular  measure.  
Summary  Function  Types
The following  summary  functions  are available:
Count : The  number  of values  (excluding  Null and DBNull  values).  This is the only summary  type 
that can be calculated  against  non-numeric  data.
Count  Distinct : The number  of distinct  values.
Sum : The sum of the values.
Min: The smallest  value.
BIViewer Guide 319
Max: The largest  value.
Average : The average  of the values.
StdDev : An estimate  of the standard  deviation  of a population,  where  the sample  is a subset  of 
the entire  population.
StdDevP : The  standard  deviation  of a population,  where  the population  is the entire  data to be 
summarized.
Var: An estimate  of the variance  of a population,  where  the sample  is a subset  of the entire  
population.
VarP : The variance  of a population,  where  the population  is the entire  data to be summarized.
BIViewer Guide 320
Median : The  median  of the values  (excluding  Null and DBNull  values).  A median  is the number  
separating  the higher  half of a value  range  from the lower  half.
Changing  Summary  Type
By default,  Dashboard  calculates  Sum for numeric  measures  and Count  for measures  that 
contain  another  type of data.
You can change  the summary  function  type for numeric  measures.  To do this in the Designer,  
invoke  the data item menu  and select  the desired  summary  type.  Less  common  summary  types  
are organized  in the More  sub-menu.
BIViewer Guide 321
Grouping
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to group  dimension  values  and display  summaries  for entire  
groups  rather  than individual  values.
You can arrange  dimension  values  in groups  of different  sizes  by specifying  the appropriate  group  
interval.  For instance,  date- time values  can be grouped  by years,  months,  quarters,  etc.
This topic  lists the supported  text and date- time group  intervals,  and describes  how to change  the 
group  interval.
Text Group  Intervals
String  values  support  the following  grouping  intervals.
No Grouping Each  value  is displayed  "as is".
Alphabetical Values  are grouped  alphabetically  (e.g.,  A, B, C, ... Z).
Date- Time  Group  Intervals
Date- time values  support  the following  group  intervals.
Examples  in the table  below  are formatted  using  the default  settings.  
Group  Interval Description Examples
Year Values are grouped bytheyear. 2010, 2011, 2012
Quarter Values are grouped bythequarter. Q1,Q2,Q3,Q4
BIViewer Guide 322
Month Values are grouped bythemonth. January, February, March, ... 
December
Day Values aregrouped bythedayof the 
month.1,2,3,...31
Hour Values are grouped bythehour. 0,1,2,...23
Minute Values are grouped bytheminute. 0,1,2,...59
Second Values are grouped bythesecond. 0,1,2,...59
Day of the Year Values aregrouped bythedayof the 
year.1,2,3,...365
Day of the 
WeekValues aregrouped bythedayof the 
week.Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, ... 
Saturday
Week  of the 
YearValues aregrouped bytheweek of the 
year.1,2,3,...52
Week  of the 
MonthValues aregrouped bytheweek of the 
month.1,2,3,4,5
Month- Year Values aregrouped bytheyear and 
month.January 2012, February 2012, ...
December 2012, January 2013, ...
BIViewer Guide 323
Quarter- Year Values aregrouped bytheyear and 
quarter.Q32012, Q42012, Q12013, Q2
2013, ...
Day- Month-
YearValues aregrouped by date. 3/4/2012, 3/5/2012, 3/6/2012, ...
Date- Hour Values aregrouped bydatewith the 
hour value.3/4/2012 0:00AM,3/4/2012 1:00 
AM, 3/4/2012  2:00 AM, ...
Date- Hour-
MinuteValues aregrouped bydatewith the 
hour and minute  values.3/4/2012 0:00AM,3/4/2012 0:01 
AM, 3/4/2012  0:02 AM, ...
Date- Hour-
Minute-
SecondValues aregrouped bydatewith the 
hour,  minute  and second  values.3/4/2012 0:00:00 AM,3/4/2012
0:00:01 AM,3/4/2012 0:00:02  
AM, ...
Exact  Date Each value isdisplayed "as is". 2009, Q22009, 6/15/2009 1:45:30  
PM, ...
Changing  Group  Interval
To specify  the group  interval  in the Designer,  invoke  the data item menu  and select  the desired  
group  interval.  Less  common  group  intervals  are organized  in the More  submenus.
BIViewer Guide 324
Sorting
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to easily  change  the sort order  of values  within  a dashboard  
item.  You can also enable  sorting  by parameter  values.
Changing  Sort Order
The sort order  of dimension  values  is indicated  with an arrow.
BIViewer Guide 325
To change  the sort order  in the Designer,  click the data item.  You can also toggle  sorting  from the 
data item menu.
Sorting  by Measure  Values
Dashboard  allows  you to sort dimension  values  by summary  values  calculated  for a specific  
measure.  To enable  sorting  by measure  in the Designer,  use the Sort by submenu  in the 
dimension's  menu.
BIViewer Guide 326
You can also sort dimension  values  by the values  of hidden  measures.
Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to filter a query  of the SQL Data  Source  or apply  filtering  to a specific  
data- aware  dashboard  item.
This topic  describes  how to enable  and reset  filtering.
Apply  Filtering
To configure  filtering,  select  the target  dashboard  item and do one of the following:
 lIf you are using  a Ribbon  menu,  click the Edit Filter  button  in the Data  tab.
 lRight- click a dashboard  item and select  Edit Filter  from its context  menu.  
BIViewer Guide 327
This will invoke  the Filter  Editor  dialog.  Use this dialog  to build  filter criteria  with a convenient  
tree-like interface.
BIViewer Guide 328
You can use hidden  dimensions  within  the Filter  Editor  dialog,  allowing  you to filter data based  on 
their values.
Clear  Filtering
To clear  filtering  in the Designer,  select  the target  dashboard  item and do one of the following:
 lIf you are using  a Ribbon  menu,  click the Clear  button  in the Data  tab.
 lRight- click a dashboard  item and select  Clear  from its context  menu.
BIViewer Guide 329
For hierarchies,  a tree is displayed  instead,  allowing  you to filter individual  values  at any hierarchy  
level.
BIViewer Guide 330
Top N
The Top N feature  allows  you to display  only a limited  number  of values  that correspond  to the 
highest  or lowest  values  of a particular  measure.
To display  the top values  in a dimension,  select  Top N from the data item menu.
This invokes  the Top N Values  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 331
In this dialog,  check  the Enabled  check  box and specify  the following  settings.
 
Mode Specifies  whether  top or bottom  values  should  be displayed.
Count The number  of values  to be displayed.
Measure The parameter  that will determine  the top or bottom  value.
Show  
"Others" ValueIf enabled,  all values  that are not the top/bottom  values  are 
consolidated  in the "Others"  value.
You can use the hidden  measure  as a parameter  that will determine  the top or bottom  value.
BIViewer Guide 332
Formatting  Data
Dashboard  allows  you to customize  various  data format  settings  for numeric  and date- time 
values.
Formatting  Numeric  Values
To specify  a format  for numeric  values,  select  Format  from the data item menu.
This invokes  the Numeric  Format  window.
BIViewer Guide 333
In the Format  type field,  select  the required  format  type.
Auto Format  settings  are automatically  determined  based  on the data type.
General Converts  a number  to the most  compact  of either  fixed- point  or scientific  
notation,  depending  on the type of the number.
Number Converts  a number  to a string  of the "-d,ddd,ddd.  ddd" form where  "-" 
indicates  a negative  number  symbol  (if required),  "d" indicates  a digit (0-9), 
"," indicates  a group  separator,  and "." indicates  a decimal  point  symbol.
Currency Converts  a number  to a string  that represents  a currency  amount.  To learn  
about  currency  formatting  specifics,  see the Currency  Formatting  Specifics  
section  of this document.
BIViewer Guide 334
Scientific Converts  a number  to a string  of the "-d.dddE+ddd"  or "-d.ddde+ddd"  form 
where  each  "d" indicates  a digit (0-9).
Percent Multiplies  a number  by 100 and converts  it to a percentage  string.
Other  format  settings  are in effect  for only specific  format  types.
Setting Description Format  
Types
Unit The unit to which  values  should  be converted. Number,  
Currency
Precision The number  of fractional  digits  that should  be displayed. Scientific,  
Percent
Currency Defines  the currency  sign and format  settings  that should  
be used  to display  currency  values.  To learn  about  
currency  formatting  specifics,  see the Currency  Formatting  
Specifics  section  of this document.Currency
Currency
cultureFor currencies  used  in a region  with several  cultures,  
specifies  the culture  that defines  format  settings.Currency
Include
group
separatorSpecifies  whether  or not separators  should  be inserted  
between  digit groups.Number,  
Currency,  
Percent
BIViewer Guide 335
Formatting  Date- Time  Values
To specify  a format  for date- time values,  use the Format  submenu  in the data item menu.
This submenu  lists the available  format  types  that depend  on the selected  group  interval.
Specific  group  intervals  do not have  format  options.  This means  that corresponding  values  can 
only be presented  in a single  manner.  The Format  submenu  is not displayed  for such  group  
intervals.
The following  list shows  format  types  by group  interval:
BIViewer Guide 336
 lYear
 oFull: The full year pattern  (Example  - 6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 2017  (en-US)).  
Abbreviated : The  year from 00 to 99 (Example  - 6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 17 (en-
US)).
 lQuarter
 oFull: The full quarter  pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> Q2 (en-US)).
 oNumeric : The quarter  from 1 through  4 (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 2 (en-
US)).
 lMonth
 oFull: The full name  of the month  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> June  (en-US)).
 oAbbreviated : The abbreviated  name  of the month  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -
> Jun (en-US)).  N u m eric - The month  from 1 through  12 (Example:  6/15/2017  
1:45:30  PM -> 6 (en-US)).
 lHour
 oLong : Long  hour pattern,  12-hour format  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:00 
PM).  
Short : Short  hour pattern,  24-hour format  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 13).
 lDay of Week
 oFull: The full name  of the day of the week  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday  (en-US)).
 oAbbreviated : The abbreviated  name  of the day of the week  (Example:  6/15/2017  
1:45:30  PM -> Mon (en-US)).
BIViewer Guide 337
 oNumeric : The day of the week  from 1 through  7 (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
2 (en-US)).
 lDay- Month- Year
 oLong : Long  date pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> Monday,  June  15, 2017  
(en-US)).  
Short : Short  date pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 6/15/2017  (en-US)).
 lDate- Hour
 oLong : Long  date pattern,  long hour pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday,  June  15, 2017  1:00 PM (en-US)).
 oShort : Short  date pattern,  long hour pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
6/15/2017  1:00 PM (en-US)).
 oTime  only: Long  hour pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:00 PM (en-US)).
 lDate- Hour- Minute
 oLong : Long  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday,  June  15, 2017  1:45 PM (en-US)).
 oShort : Short  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
6/15/2017  1:45 PM (en-US)).
 oTime  only: Long  time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:45 PM (en-US)).
 lDate- Hour- Minute- Second
 oLong : Long  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday,  June  15, 2017  1:45:30  PM (en-US)).
 oShort : Short  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM (en-US)).
BIViewer Guide 338
 oTim e only: Long  time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:45:30  PM (en-
US)).
The list below  illustrates  format  types  related  to the Exact  Date  group  interval:
 lYear
 oFull: The full year pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 2017  (en-US)).  
 oAbbreviated : The year from 00 to 99 (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 17 (en-
US)).
 lQuarter
 on /a - The default  year and full quarter  pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> Q2 
2017  (en-US)).
 lMonth
 on /a - The default  year pattern  and the full name  of the month  (Example:  6/15/2017  
1:45:30  PM -> June,  2017  (en-US)).
 lDay
 oLong : Long  date pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> Monday,  June  15, 2017  
(en-US)).  
 oShort : Short  date pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 6/15/2017  (en-US)).
 lHour
 oLong : Long  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday,  June  15, 2017  1:00 PM (en-US)).
 oShort : Short  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
6/15/2017  1:00 PM (en-US)).
 oTime  only: Long  time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:00 PM (en-US)).
BIViewer Guide 339
 lMinute
 oLong:  Long  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday,  June  15, 2017  1:45 PM (en-US)).
 oShort:  Short  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
6/15/2017  1:45 PM (en-US)).
 oTim e only:  Long  time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:45 PM (en-US)).
 l Second
 oLong : Long  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
Monday,  June  15, 2017  1:45:30  PM (en-US)).
 oShort : Short  date pattern,  long time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 
6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM (en-US)).  
Time  only: Long  time pattern  (Example:  6/15/2017  1:45:30  PM -> 1:45:30  PM (en-
US)).
Currency  Formatting  Specifics
The Dashboard  allows  you to specify  a currency  format  at two levels:  for the entire  dashboard  and 
for individual  Data  Items.
Data  Item Currency
To specify  which  currency  to use for a particular  data item,  select  Format  from the data item 
menu.
BIViewer Guide 340
In the Numeric  Format  dialog,  select  Currency  in the Format  type field and use the Currency  
combo  box to select  the required  currency.
This option  only affects  the way values  are displayed.  The Dashboard  does  not convert  monetary  
amounts  from one currency  to another.
BIViewer Guide 341
For regions  with several  cultures,  you can also select  the culture  that will be used  to format  
currency  values.
You can also apply  the default  dashboard  currency  by selecting  Use dashboard  settings  in the 
Currency  field.
Dashboard  Currency
You can also specify  the default  currency  for the dashboard.  This setting  will be applied  to 
dashboard  items  that have  no currency  defined.
To set the dashboard  currency,  click the Currency  button  in the Ribbon.
This invokes  the Dashboard  Currency  window.  In this window,  select  the required  currency  using  
the Currency  combo  box.
BIViewer Guide 342
This option  only affects  the way values  are displayed.  The Dashboard  does  not convert  monetary  
amounts  from one currency  to another.
For regions  with several  cultures,  you can also select  the culture  that will be used  to format  
currency  values.
Additionally,  you can specify  the client  culture  that should  be used  for the dashboard  by selecting  
the Use client  system  settings  item.  In this instance,  the current  system  culture  will be used  in 
WinForms  applications,  and the client  culture  will be used  in Web applications.
BIViewer Guide 343
Interactivity
This section  describes  features  that enable  interaction  between  various  dashboard  items.  These  
features  include  Master  Filtering  and Drill-Down.
Master  Filtering
The Dashboard  allows  you to use any data aware  dashboard  item as a filter for other  dashboard  
items  (Master  Filter).  You can select  elements  in a Master  Filter  item (grid records,  chart  bars,  pie 
segments,  etc.) to filter data in other  dashboard  items  by the selected  values.
Master  Filtering  Overview
Dashboard  items  can be divided  into four groups  by their master  filtering  capabilities.
Data  visualization  dashboard  items  allow  you to enable  master  filtering  by specifying  the selection  
mode.
 lFilter  elements  represent  a special  type of dashboard  item whose  main  purpose  is to apply  
filtering  to other  dashboard  items.  This capability  is always  enabled  for these  dashboard  
items.
The following  filter elements  are available:
BIViewer Guide 344
 lCombo  Box
 lList Box
 lTree View
Instead  of switching  between  standard  master  filtering  modes,  some  filter elements  allow  you to 
switch  their type.  This allows  you to select  a single  value  or multiple  values.
 lRange  Filter  is a special  type of dashboard  item that displays  a chart  with selection  thumbs  
and allows  you to filter out values  displayed  along  the argument  axis.
 lDashboard  item group  allows  you to manage  interaction  between  dashboard  items  in and 
out of the group.
The Master  Filter  item supports  two selection  modes:
 lMultiple : Allows  you to select  multiple  elements  in the Master  Filter  item.
 lSingle : Allows  you to select  only one element  in the Master  Filter  item.  When  this mode  is 
enabled,  the default  selection  will be set to a Master  Filter  element.  You can change  this 
selection,  but cannot  clear  it.
To enable/disable  master  filtering,  use the Multiple  Master  Filter  or Single  Master  Filter  
buttons  in the Data  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 345
If the selected  dashboard  item contains  several  types  of elements  that can be used  for filtering,  
the Ribbon  or Toolbar  will provide  the appropriate  buttons  to switch  between  these  types  (e.g.,  the 
Arguments  and Series  buttons  in the Chart).  
Filtering  Across  Data  Sources
When  different  items  in a dashboard  are bound  to different  data sources,  you can specify  that a 
particular  Master  Filter  should  be applied  across  data sources.  This means  that it will apply  
filtering  to fields  with matching  names  in all data sources.
Fields  are matched  by their full names.  For fields  in other  data sources  to be affected  by Master  
Filtering,  their names  must  match  the name  of the field in the current  data source,  and they must  
belong  to the same  hierarchy  level so that their full names  also match.  For instance,  Customer  
City and Customer  Address.  City will not be treated  as matching  fields.
To enable  filtering  across  data sources,  use the Cross- Data- Source  Filtering  button  in the Data  
Ribbon  tab.
Preventing  Items  from  Being  Filtered
You can prevent  specific  dashboard  items  from being  affected  by Master  Filters.  To do this, use 
the Ignore  Master  Filters  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 346
Apply  Filtering
To learn  how to apply  filtering  in a specific  dashboard  item,  refer to the Master  Filtering  topic  in 
the Interactivity  section  for this item.
Drill- Down
Dashboard  provides  the Drill-Down  feature,  which  allows  you to change  the detail  level of data 
displayed  in a dashboard  item.  The Drill-Down  feature  enables  users  to drill down  to display  detail  
data,  or drill up to view more  general  information.
Enable Drill- Down
Drill-down  requires  that the data section  contains  several  dimensions  or a hierarchy  data item.
BIViewer Guide 347
To enable  drill-down,  click the Drill-Down  button  in the Data  Ribbon  tab (or the button  if you are 
using  the toolbar  menu).
If the selected  dashboard  item contains  several  types  of elements  that can be used  for drill-down,  
the Ribbon  or Toolbar  will provide  the appropriate  buttons  to switch  between  these  types  (e.g.,  
Arguments  and Series  buttons  in a Chart).  For details,  refer to the documentation  for the individual  
dashboard  items  in the Designing  Dashboard  Items  topic.
BIViewer Guide 348
The following  dashboard  items  support  the Drill-Down  feature:
 lChart
 lScatter  Chart  
 lGrid
 lPies
 lCards
 lGauges
 lTreemap
Perform  Drill- Down
To learn  how you can drill down  using  a particular  dashboard  item,  refer to the Drill- Down  topic  in 
the Interactivity  section  for this item.
BIViewer Guide 349
Converting  Dashboard  Items
The BI Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to convert  data- bound  dashboard  items  to 
another  type.  To convert  the selected  dashboard  item to another  type,  use the Convert  button  in 
the ribbon's  Home  tab or the corresponding  command  in the item's  context  menu.
The BI Dashboard  Designer  always  preserves  the following  settings  for data- bound  dashboard  
items:
 lThe set of Data  Items  used  to bind the dashboard  item to data.
 l Data  shaping  settings  of Data  Items  and their names.
 lA custom  name  displayed  within  the dashboard  item caption.
BIViewer Guide 350
The following  settings  are kept if the dashboard  item is being  converted  to an item that also 
supports  this feature:
 lMaster  Filtering  settings  (e.g.,  the specified  master  filter mode)  and Drill-Down  settings  
(e.g.,  the target  dimension).
 lConditional  Formatting  settings.  
 lColoring  settings.  
 lCalculation  settings.
For different  types  of dashboard  items,  some  specific  settings  can be preserved.  For example,  the 
following  settings  are preserved:
 lLegend  settings  for the Chart/Scatter  Chart  dashboard  items.  
 lSeries  types  for the Chart/Range  Filter  dashboard  items.
 lElement  arrangement  settings  for the Pie/Card/Gauge  dashboard  items.  
 lCaption  settings  for the Pie/Gauge  dashboard  items.
 lNavigation  settings  for Choropleth  Map/Geo  Point  Maps.
 lThe attribute  whose  values  are displayed  within  shape  titles for Choropleth  Map/Geo  Point  
Maps.  
 lLegend  settings  for the Choropleth  Map/Geo  Point  Maps.
 lClustering  settings  for Geo Point  Maps.
BIViewer Guide 351
Appearance  Customization
The topics  in this section  describe  how to customize  the appearance  of a dashboard  or any of its 
elements  using  conditional  formatting  and coloring.
Conditional  Formatting
The Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to apply  formatting  to dashboard  item elements  
whose  values  meet  the specified  condition.  This feature  allows  you to highlight  specific  elements  
using  a predefined  set of rules.
BIViewer Guide 352Appearance Customization
Conditional  Formatting  Overview
Comparison  rules  used  in conditional  formatting  can be divided  into the following  groups.
 lValue  :Allows  you to compare  static  values  (such  as Greater  Than,  Less  Than,  Between,  
etc.).  
 lTop- Bottom : Highlights  a specific  number  of topmost/bottommost  values.
 lAverage : Highlights  values  above  the average  value  or below  the average  value.
 lA Date  Occurring : Allows  you to highlight  date- time values  that fall into a specified  interval.
 lExpression : Allows  you to use complex  conditions  to apply  formatting.  You can also pass  
dashboard  parameters  to expressions.
 lIcon Ranges : Allows  you to apply  formatting  by displaying  specific  icons  for different  
ranges  of values.  You can select  a predefined  set of icons  or use a specific  icon for each  
range.
 lColor  Ranges : Allows  you to apply  formatting  using  specific  colors  for different  ranges  of 
values.  You can select  a predefined  set of colors  or use custom  appearance  settings  to 
highlight  values  within  specified  ranges.
 lGradient  Ranges : Allows  you to apply  formatting  using  gradient  color  scales.
 lBar: Allows  you to visualize  numeric  values  using  bars.  You can also color  bars 
corresponding  to positive  and negative  values  using  different  colors.
 lBar Color  Ranges : Allows  you to visualize  numeric  values  using  bars whose  colors  are 
contained  in the specified  color  set.
 lBar Gradient  Ranges : Allows  you to visualize  numeric  values  using  bars whose  colors  are 
contained  in the specified  color  gradient.
BIViewer Guide 353Appearance Customization
You can create  comparison  rules  for measures  or dimensions.  The list below  shows  format  
conditions  that can be applied  to different  types  of Data  Items.
 lMeasure/numeric
 lDimension  Value  
 lTop-Bottom  Average
 l Expression
 lIcon Ranges  
 lColor  Ranges  
 lGradient  Ranges
 lBar
 lBar Color  Ranges  
 lBar Gradient  Ranges
 lString  Dimension
 lValue  with the condition  type set to Equal  To, Not Equal  To or Text that Contains  
Expression
 lDate- Time  
 lDimension  Value
 lA Date  Occuring  for dimensions  with the continuous  date- time group  interval  Expression
 lIcon Ranges  
 lColor  Ranges  
 lGradient  Ranges  Bar
BIViewer Guide 354Appearance Customization
 lBar Color  Ranges  
 lBar Gradient  Ranges
Create  a Format  Rule
To create  a new rule used  to apply  formatting  according  to the required  condition,  do the 
following:
 1. Choose  a measure/dimension  by whose  values  a format  condition  will be calculated.  Click  
the measure/  dimension  menu  button,  select  Add Format  Rule and choose  the condition.
 2. This invokes  the dialog  that depends  on the selected  format  condition  and the type of 
dashboard  item.  For instance,  the image  below  displays  the Greater  Than  dialog  
corresponding  to the Value  format  condition  for the Grid dashboard  item.
BIViewer Guide 355Appearance Customization
In this dialog,  specify  settings  for the selected  condition  (for instance,  specify  a value  to compare  
with dimension/measure  values).  To learn  more,  see the documentation  for the required  
condition.
 3. Specify  appearance  settings  applied  to elements  whose  values  meet  the noted  condition.  
 4. Specify  the data item to whose  values  conditional  formatting  is applied  using  the Apply  to 
combo  box.
BIViewer Guide 356Appearance Customization
Thus,  you can create  a format  rule for one data item and apply  new appearance  settings  to the 
other  data item.  You can also create  format  rules  for hidden  measures  and apply  formatting  to 
values  of visible  Data  Items.  Different  dashboard  items  can provide  additional  capabilities  for 
creating  a new format  rule. To learn  more,  refer to documentation  for the required  dashboard  item.
Specify  Appearance  Settings
When  creating  a new format  rule, you can select  the required  appearance  settings  applied  
according  to the current  format  condition.  All format  conditions  allow  you to customize  
appearance  settings  in a similar  manner.  For instance,  the Value  format  condition  allows  you to 
specify  appearance  settings  in the following  way:
The Appearance  tab allows  you to choose  the predefined  background  color/font.
The Icons  tab allows  you to add the predefined  icon.
BIViewer Guide 357Appearance Customization
Use the Custom  Appearance  area in the Appearance  tab to add presets  containing  custom  
appearance  settings.  To add a new preset,  click an empty  square.  This invokes  the Custom  Style  
Settings  dialog,  allowing  you to specify  the required  appearance  settings.
BIViewer Guide 358Appearance Customization
In this dialog,  you can specify  the backgoround/foreground  colors  and font settings.  Click  Create  
to add a preset.  The created  preset  will be displayed  in the Custom  Appearance  area.
Edit a Format  Rule
To edit format  rules  for the selected  dashboard  item,  click the Edit Rules  button  in the Home  
ribbon  tab.
BIViewer Guide 359Appearance Customization
As an alternative,  use the Edit Rules  data item's  menu  item or the corresponding  item in the 
dashboard  item's  context  menu.
This invokes  the Edit Rules  dialog  containing  existing  format  rules  for this dashboard  item.
This dialog  allows  you to perform  the following  actions:
BIViewer Guide 360Appearance Customization
 lTo edit the selected  rule, use the Edit button  or double- click the required  rule. 
 lTo delete  the selected  rule, use the Delete  button.
 lTo reorder  format  rules,  use the Up and Down  buttons  (the and icon,  respectively).  
Reordering  of rules  allows  you to specify  the priority  of rules  from higher  (a bottommost  
rule) to lower  (a topmost  rule).
 lTo enable/disable  the required  rule, use the corresponding  check  box on the left column.
 lTo create  a new rule, click the Add button  and select  the required  format  condition.  The 
Calculated  By combo  box allows  you to select  the measure/dimension  by whose  values  a 
format  rule is applied.  
 lTo filter format  rules  by the specified  data item,  use the Filter  by combo  box.
To clear  all rules  for the specified  data item,  use the Clear  Rules  button  in the data item's  context  
menu.
Value
The Value  format  condition  allows  you to compare  static  values  (such  as Greater  Than,  Less  
Than,  Between,  etc.).  The following  condition  types  are supported  for measures  or date- time 
dimensions:
Greater  Than/Greater  Than  or Equal  To
The "Greater  Than"/"Greater  Than  or Equal  To" format  conditions  allow  you to apply  formatting  to 
elements  whose  values  are greater  than/greater  than or equal  to the specified  value.  For 
instance,  the following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  Exten  ded Price  cells are 
filled in green  if their values  are Greater  Than  150 000.
BIViewer Guide 361Appearance Customization
This format  condition  can be applied  to measures  or date- time dimensions.
Less  Than/Less  Than  or Equal  To
The "Less  Than"/"Less  Than  or Equal  To" format  conditions  allow  you to apply  formatting  to 
elements  whose  values  are less than/less  than or equal  to the specified  value.  For instance,  the 
following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  E xten ded Price  cells are filled in red if 
their values  are Less  Than  150 000.
This format  condition  can be applied  to measures  or date- time dimensions.
BIViewer Guide 362Appearance Customization
Equal  To/Not  Equal  To
The "Equal  To"/"Not  Equal  To" format  conditions  allow  you to apply  formatting  to elements  whose  
values  are equal  to/not  equal  to the specified  value.  For instance,  the following  image  displays  a 
Grid dashboard  item whose  Sales  Pers on cells are filled in blue if their values  are equal  to 'Robert  
King'.
This format  condition  can be applied  to measures,  string  or date- time dimensions.
Between/Not  Between
The "Between"/"Not  Between"  format  conditions  allow  you to apply  formatting  to elements  whose  
values  are between/not  between  the specified  values.  For instance,  the following  image  displays  
a Grid dashboard  item whose  Extended  Price  cells are filled in orange  if their values  are Between  
100,000  and 200,000.
BIViewer Guide 363Appearance Customization
This format  condition  can be applied  to measures  or date- time dimensions.
The "Text  That Contains"  format  condition  allows  you to apply  formatting  to elements  whose  
values  contain  the specified  text. For instance,  the following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  
item whose  Sales  Person  cells are in cyan  if their values  contain  the 'An' text.
This format  condition  can be applied  to measures,  string  or date- time dimensions.
BIViewer Guide 364Appearance Customization
Top- Bottom
The Top-Bottom  format  conditions  allow  you to highlight  a specific  number  of topmost/bottommost  
values.  You can specify  this number  as an absolute  or percent  value.
The following  condition  types  are supported  for measures:
Top N
The "Top  N" format  condition  allows  you to apply  formatting  to elements  whose  values  are ranked  
at the top. For instance,  the following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  top 3 
Extended  Price  values  filled in green.
Bottom  N
The "Bottom  N" format  condition  allows  you to apply  formatting  to elements  whose  values  are 
ranked  at the bottom.  For instance,  the following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  
bottom  40%Extended  Price  values  are filled in red.
BIViewer Guide 365Appearance Customization
Average
The Average  format  conditions  allow  you to highlight  values  above  or below  an average  value.  
The following  condition  types  are supported  for measures:
Above  Average/Above  of Equal  Average
The "Above  Average"/"Above  or Equal  Average"  format  conditions  allow  you to apply  formatting  
to elements  whose  values  are above/above  or equal  to the average.  For instance,  the following  
image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  Extended  Price  values  that are above  average  (~ 
141,000)  filled in green.
BIViewer Guide 366Appearance Customization
Below  Average/Below  or Equal  Average
The "Below  Average"/"Below  or Equal  Average"  format  conditions  allow  you to apply  formatting  to 
elements  whose  values  are below/below  or equal  to the average.  For instance,  the following  
image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  E xten ded Price  values  that are below  average  (~ 
141,000)  filled in red.
BIViewer Guide 367Appearance Customization
Icon Ranges
Icon Ranges  allow  you to use predefined  or custom  sets of icons  to apply  conditional  formatting  to 
different  ranges  of values.
To format  values  according  the required  condition,  click the data item menu  button,  select  Add 
Format  Rule  | Icon Ranges  and choose  the required  icon set.
This invokes  the Range  Set dialog  containing  the set of value  ranges  and corresponding  icons.  
The Grid dashboard  item on the right displays  the default  formatting  applied  using  the predefined  
set of 3 icons.
BIViewer Guide 368Appearance Customization
This dialog  allows  you to change  the following  options  specific  to Icon Ranges.
 lThe Format  Style  combo  box allows  you to change  the icon set used  to apply  formatting.
 lThe Use % ranges  check  box specifies  whether  the percent  or absolute  scale  is used  to 
generate  ranges.
Note  that this option  is not available  for date- time dimensions.
To change  the icon displayed  for values  corresponding  to the specified  range,  click the button  
next to the required  icon and select  a new icon.
BIViewer Guide 369Appearance Customization
Select  No Style  to disable  the indication  for the required  range.
You can change  range  boundaries  by specifying  the required  values.
Note  that a new value  should  fall into a range  between  corresponding  values  of the previous  and 
next range.
To change  the comparison  logic for the required  range,  click the comparison  sign and select  the 
required  option.
BIViewer Guide 370Appearance Customization
The greater  or equal  sign includes  the smallest  value  of the current  interval  while  the greater  sigh 
excludes  the smallest  value  from the current  interval  and includes  it in the next interval.
Use the Add and Delete  buttons  to add new ranges  or delete  the selected  range  respectively.  
Note  that new range  is added  below  the selected  range.
Color  Ranges
Color  Ranges  allow  you to use predefined  sets of colors  to apply  conditional  formatting  to different  
ranges  of values.  You can also use custom  appearance  settings  for specific  ranges.
To format  values  according  the required  condition,  click the data item menu  button,  select  Add 
Format  Rule | Color  Ranges  and choose  the required  icon set.
BIViewer Guide 371Appearance Customization
This invokes  the Range  Set dialog  containing  the set of value  ranges  and corresponding  
appearance  settings.  The Grid dashboard  item on the right displays  the default  formatting  applied  
using  the predefined  set of 3 colors.
BIViewer Guide 372Appearance Customization
This dialog  allows  you to change  the following  options  specific  to Icon Ranges.
 lThe Format  Style  combo  box allows  you to change  the color  set used  to apply  formatting.
 lThe Use % ranges  check  box specifies  whether  the percent  or absolute  scale  is used  to 
generate  ranges.
Note  that this option  is not available  for date- time dimensions.
BIViewer Guide 373Appearance Customization
To change  the appearance  settings  applied  to values  corresponding  to the specified  range,  click 
the button  next to the required  color  and select  a new color  or specify  custom  appearance  
settings.  
Select  No Style  to disable  the indication  for the required  range.
You can change  range  boundaries  by specifying  the required  values.
Note  that a new value  should  fall into a range  between  corresponding  values  of the previous  and 
next range.
To change  the comparison  logic for the required  range,  click the comparison  sign and select  the 
required  option.
BIViewer Guide 374Appearance Customization
The greater  or equal  sign includes  the smallest  value  for the current  interval  while  the greater  sign 
excludes  the smallest  value  from the current  interval  and includes  it in the next interval.
Use the Add and Delete  buttons  to add new ranges  or delete  the selected  range  respectively.
Gradient  Ranges
Gradient  Ranges  allow  you to use predefined  color  gradients  to apply  conditional  formatting  to 
different  ranges  of values.  You can also use specific  colors  to generate  custom  gradients.
To format  values  according  the required  condition,  click the measure  menu  button,  select  Add 
Format  Rule | Color  Ranges  and choose  the required  color  gradient.
BIViewer Guide 375Appearance Customization
This invokes  the Gradient  Ranges  dialog  containing  the set of value  ranges  and corresponding  
appearance  settings.  The Grid dashboard  item on the right displays  the default  formatting  applied  
using  the predefined  Red-  Blue gradient.
BIViewer Guide 376Appearance Customization
This dialog  allows  you to change  the following  options  specific  to Gradient  Ranges.
BIViewer Guide 377Appearance Customization
 lNumber  of ranges  allows  you to specify  the number  of ranges  used  to classify  values.  
 lClick  the Generate  Ranges  button  to generate  a new gradient  scale  according  to the 
specified  number  of ranges.  The Use % ranges  check  box specifies  whether  the percent  or 
absolute  scale  is used  to generate  ranges.
Note  that this option  is not available  for date- time dimensions.
To change  the specific  color  in the gradient,  click the button  next to the required  color  and select  a 
new color  or specify  a custom  background  color.  This allows  you to create  a color  gradient  based  
on more  than two colors.  In this case,  the specified  colors  are marked  with an empty  square.
You can change  range  boundaries  by specifying  the required  values.
Note  that a new value  should  fall into a range  between  corresponding  values  of the previous  and 
next range.
To change  the comparison  logic for the required  range,  click the comparison  sign and select  the 
required  option.
BIViewer Guide 378Appearance Customization
The greater  or equal  sign includes  the smallest  value  in the current  interval  while  the greater  sign 
excludes  the smallest  value  from the current  interval  and includes  it in the next interval.
A Date  Occurring
A Date  Occurring  format  condition  allows  you to highlight  date- time values  that fall into a specified  
interval.  Note  that this format  condition  can be applied  to dimensions  with the continuous  date-
time group  interval.
To format  values  according  the Date  Occurring  condition,  click the menu  button  of the required  
dimension  and select  Add Format  Rule  | A Date  Occurring .
BIViewer Guide 379Appearance Customization
This invokes  the A Date  Occurring  dialog  which  allows  you to select  a date- time interval (s), whose  
value  should  be formatted.
BIViewer Guide 380Appearance Customization
The following  intervals  are supported:
 lIs beyond  this year - Dates  that follow  the current  year.
 lIs later this year - Dates  of the current  year starting  from the following  month.
 lIs later this month  - Dates  of the current  month  that follow  the next week.
 lIs later this week  - Dates  of the current  week  starting  from the day after tomorrow.
 lIs next week  - Dates  that belong  to the following  week.
BIViewer Guide 381Appearance Customization
 lIs tomorrow  - Tomorrow.
 lIs today  - Today.
 lIs yesterday  - Yesterday.
 lIs earlier  this week  - Dates  of the current  week  that are prior to yesterday.
 lIs last week  - Dates  of the previous  week.
 lIs earlier  this month  - Dates  of the current  month  that are prior to the previous  week.
 lIs earlier  this year - Dates  of the current  year that are prior to the current  month.
 lIs prior to this year - Dates  that are prior to the current  year.
 lEmpty  - Does  not specify  any condition.
 lBeyond  - Dates  that belong  to the month  in three- months  time and beyond.
 lThisWeek  - Dates  that belong  to the current  week.
 lThisMonth  - Dates  that belong  to the current  month.
 lMonthAfter1  - Dates  that belong  to the following  month.
 lMonthAfter2  - Dates  that belong  to the month  in two-months  time.
 lMonthAgo1  - Dates  that belong  to the previous  month.
 lMonthAgo2  - Dates  that belong  to the month  two months  ago.
 lMonthAgo3  - Dates  that belong  to the month  three  months  ago.
 lMonthAgo4  - Dates  that belong  to the month  four months  ago.
 lMonthAgo5  - Dates  that belong  to the month  five months  ago.
 lMonthAgo6  - Dates  that belong  to the month  six months  ago.
 lEarlier  - Dates  that belong  to the month  seven  months  ago and earlier.
BIViewer Guide 382Appearance Customization
Expression
An Expression  format  condition  allows  you to use complex  conditions  to apply  formatting.
To format  values  according  to the Expression  condition,  click the menu  button  of the required  data 
item and select.
Add Format  Rule/Expression
This invokes  the Expression  dialog  that allows  you to specify  the required  expression.  For 
instance,  the following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  rows  are filled in green  if the 
Extended  Price/Quantity  values  are greater  than 150,000  and 7,500,  respectively.
BIViewer Guide 383Appearance Customization
You can pass  static  values  when  creating  conditions  or pass  a dashboard  parameter  to apply  
conditional  formatting  dynamically.  
Bar
The Bar format  condition  allows  you to visualize  numeric  values  using  bars.  You can also paint  
bars corresponding  to positive  and negative  values  using  different  colors.
To format  values  according  to the Bar condition,  click the menu  button  of the required  data item 
and select  Add Format  Rule  | Bar.
BIViewer Guide 384Appearance Customization
This invokes  the Bar dialog  that allows  you to specify  the required  settings.  For instance,  the 
following  image  displays  a Grid dashboard  item whose  Extended  Price  cell contains  data bars 
corresponding  to numeric  values.
BIViewer Guide 385Appearance Customization
This dialog  allows  you to change  the following  options  specific  to the Bar format  condition:
 lBy default,  lengths  of the shortest  and longest  bars correspond  to minimum  and maximum  
values,  respectively.  If necessary,  you can specify  values  corresponding  to the shortest  and 
longest  bars manually.  To do this, change  the type of minimum/maximum  value  from 
Automatic  to Number  or Percent , and specify  the required  values.
BIViewer Guide 386Appearance Customization
 lStyle  Settings  and Negative  Style  Settings  allow  you to specify  style settings  used  to 
color  data bars corresponding  to positive  and negative  values,  respectively.  To learn  how to 
specify  custom  style settings,  see the Specify  Appearance  Settings  paragraph  in the 
Conditional  Formatting  topic.
 lThe Allow  negative  axis option  allows  you to specify  whether  negative  data bars are 
displayed  in the direction  opposite  to the positive  data bars.
 lThe Draw  axis option  specifies  whether  to draw  the vertical  axis between  positive  and 
negative  data bars.
 lThe Show  bar only option  specifies  whether  to show  bars without  corresponding  values.
Bar Color  Ranges
Bar Color  Ranges  allow  you to visualize  numeric  values  using  bars whose  colors  are contained  in 
the specified  color  set.
To format  values  according  the required  condition,  click the data item menu  button,  select  Add 
Format  Rule | Bar Color  Ranges  and choose  the required  color  set.
BIViewer Guide 387Appearance Customization
This invokes  the Color  Range  Bar dialog  containing  the set of value  ranges  and corresponding  
colors.  The Grid dashboard  item on the right displays  the default  formatting  applied  using  the 
predefined  set of 3 colors.
This dialog  allows  you to change  the following  options  specific  to Bar Color  Ranges.
BIViewer Guide 388Appearance Customization
 lThe Format  Style  combo  box allows  you to change  the color  set used  to apply  formatting.
 lThe Use % ranges  check  box specifies  whether  the percent  or absolute  scale  is used  to 
generate  ranges.
Note  that this option  is not available  for numeric  dimensions.
To change  the appearance  settings  applied  to values  corresponding  to the specified  range,  click 
the button  next to the required  color  and select  a new color  or specify  custom  appearance  
settings.  
Select  No Style  to disable  the indication  for the required  range.
You can change  range  boundaries  by specifying  the required  values.
BIViewer Guide 389Appearance Customization
Note  that a new value  should  fall into a range  between  corresponding  values  of the previous  and 
next range.
To change  the comparison  logic for the required  range,  click the comparison  sign and select  the 
required  option.
The greater  or equal  sign includes  the smallest  value  for the current  interval,  while  the greater  sign 
excludes  the smallest  value  from the current  interval  and includes  it in the next interval.
Use the Add and Delete  buttons  to add new ranges  or delete  the selected  range  respectively.
Bar Gradient  Ranges
The Bar Gradient  Ranges  allow  you to visualize  numeric  values  using  bars whose  colors  are 
contained  in the specified  color  gradient.
To format  values  according  the required  condition,  click the measure  menu  button,  select  Add 
Format  Rule | Bar Gradient  Ranges  and choose  the required  color  gradient.
BIViewer Guide 390Appearance Customization
This invokes  the Bar Gradient  Ranges  dialog  containing  the set of value  ranges  and 
corresponding  appearance  settings.  The Grid dashboard  item on the right displays  the default  
formatting  applied  using  the predefined  Red-  Blue gradient.
BIViewer Guide 391Appearance Customization
This dialog  allows  you to change  the following  options  specific  to Bar Gradient  Ranges.
 lNumber  of ranges  allows  you to specify  the number  of ranges  used  to classify  values.  
 lClick  the Generate  Ranges  button  to generate  a new gradient  scale  according  to the 
specified  number  of ranges.  The Use % ranges  check  box specifies  whether  the percent  or 
absolute  scale  is used  to generate  ranges.
Note  that this option  is not available  for numeric  dimensions.
BIViewer Guide 392Appearance Customization
To change  the specific  color  in the gradient,  click the button  next to the required  color  and select  a 
new color  or specify  a custom  background  color.  This allows  you to create  a color  gradient  based  
on more  than two colors.  In this case,  the specified  colors  are marked  with an empty  square.
You can change  range  boundaries  by specifying  the required  values.
Note  that a new value  should  fall into a range  between  corresponding  values  of the previous  and 
next range.
To change  the comparison  logic for the required  range,  click the comparison  sign and select  the 
required  option.
The greater  or equal  sign includes  the smallest  value  in the current  interval  while  the greater  sign 
excludes  the smallest  value  from the current  interval  and includes  it in the next interval.
BIViewer Guide 393Appearance Customization
Coloring
The Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to manage  coloring  of dashboard  item elements.  
You can choose  whether  to use a global  color  scheme  providing  consistent  colors  for identical  
values  across  the dashboard  or a local color  scheme  that provides  an independent  set of colors  
for each  dashboard  item.  The Dashboard  Designer  also allows  you to edit colors  automatically  
assigned  from the default  palette.
Coloring  Concepts
The Dashboard  Designer  provides  you with the capability  to color  dashboard  item elements  by 
associating  dimension  values/measures  and specified  colors.  You can choose  whether  to use a 
global  color  scheme  to provide  consistent  colors  for identical  values  or specify  a local color  
scheme  for each  dashboard  item.
Supported  Dashboard  Items
The BI Dashboard  allows  you to manage  coloring  for the following  dashboard  items:  
 lChart
 lScatter  Chart
 lPie
 lPie Map
 lRange
 lFilter
 lTreemap
BIViewer Guide 394Appearance Customization
Color  Schemes
The dashboard  provides  two ways  of coloring  dashboard  item elements.
Using  a global  color  scheme  that provides  consistent  colors  for identical  values  across  the 
dashboard.  The image  below  shows  the dashboard  containing  Pie and Chart  dashboard  items.  
Pie segments  and chart  series  points  corresponding  to 'Beverages',  'Condiments'  and 'Diary  
Products'  dimension  values  are colored  using  identical  colors  from the default  palette.
To use global  colors  for coloring  dashboard  item elements,  click the Global  Colors  button  in the 
Design  ribbon  tab.
When  a global  color  scheme  is used,  the dashboard  reserves  automatically  generated  colors  for 
certain  values  regardless  of the filter state.
Using  a local color  scheme  that provides  an independent  set of colors  for each  dashboard  item.
BIViewer Guide 395Appearance Customization
To use local colors  for coloring  dashboard  item elements,  click Local  Colors  in the Design  ribbon  
tab.
When  a local color  scheme  is used,  the dashboard  reassigns  palette  colors  when  the filter state  is 
changed.
Coloring  Dimensions  and Measures
Dashboard  items  allow  you to manage  the coloring  of individual  dimensions  or all dashboard  item 
measures  using  predefined  coloring  modes.
Coloring  
ModeDescription
Default Dimension  values/measures  are colored  by default.  To learn  how specific  
dashboard  items  color  their elements  by default,  see the Coloring  topic  for 
the corresponding  dashboard  item.
Hue Dimension  values/measures  are colored  by hue. If coloring  by hue is 
enabled,  a data item indicates  this using  the indicator.
None Dimension  values/measures  are colored  with the same  color.
BIViewer Guide 396Appearance Customization
Coloring  Dimension  Values
To specify  the coloring  mode  for the required  dimension,  click the dimension's  menu  button  and 
use the Color  by sub-menu.  For instance,  the image  below  shows  the Chart  dashboard  item 
whose  'Country'  dimension  is colored  by hue.
Coloring  Measures
To specify  the coloring  mode  for dashboard  item measures,  click the menu  button  of any measure  
and use the Color  by sub-menu.  For instance,  the image  below  shows  the Pie dashboard  item 
whose  measures  are colored  by hue.
If you enabled  coloring  by hue for several  dimensions/measures,  all combinations  of dimension  
values/measures  will be automatically  colored  using  different  colors  from the default  palette.  
BIViewer Guide 397Appearance Customization
Customizing  a Color  Scheme
The Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to edit colors  contained  in global  and local color  
schemes.  You can select  the required  color  from the default  dashboard  palette  or specify  a 
custom  color.
Invoke  a Color  Scheme  Dialog
To edit colors,  use the Color  Scheme  dialog.  You can invoke  this dialog  in the following  ways:
To edit colors  in a global  color  scheme,  use the Edit Colors  button  in the Home  ribbon  tab or the 
Edit Colors  button  in the dashboard  item's  Design  tab.
To edit colors  in a local color  scheme,  use the Edit Colors  button  in the contextual  Design  ribbon  
tab.
Lets consider  a Chart  dashboard  item whose  dimensions  and measures  are colored  by hue using  
local colors.
BIViewer Guide 398Appearance Customization
For this dashboard  item,  the Color  Scheme  dialog  will contain  combinations  of all dimension  
values  and a specific  measure.
BIViewer Guide 399Appearance Customization
In this dialog,  you can perform  the following  actions:
 lEdit automatically  assigned  colors  or specify  new colors.  
 lAdd new values  to a color  table.
 lAdd new color  tables  containing  values  whose  colors  are not yet assigned.
Edit Colors
You can customize  automatically  assigned  colors  in several  ways.
To retain  the automatically  assigned  color  for the selected  value,  right- click the required  value  in 
the Value  column  and select  Retain  this color .
BIViewer Guide 400Appearance Customization
This reserves  the current  palette  color  for the selected  value.
You can select  another  palette  color  by clicking  the required  cell in the Color  column.
To specify  a custom  color,  click More  Colors...  and pick any color  using  the RGB  or HSB color  
model  in the invoked  Select  Color  dialog .
BIViewer Guide 401Appearance Customization
You can reset  the customized  color  for the selected  value  using  the Reset  menu  item.
BIViewer Guide 402Appearance Customization
Add a New Value
The Color  Scheme  dialog  allows  you adding  a new value  with the specified  color  to the selected  
color  table.  To do this, click the New Value...  button.
In the invoked  New Value  dialog,  specify  the dimension  values,  add the required  measures  and 
click OK. This creates  a new value  whose  color  can be specified  as described  in Edit Colors .
You can remove  manually  added  values  using  the Remove  context  menu  item.
BIViewer Guide 403Appearance Customization
Add a New Color  Table
The Color  Scheme  dialog  also allows  you to add a new color  table  containing  values  whose  colors  
are not yet assigned.  To do this, click New Color  Table...  button.
In the invoked  dialog,  specify  the data source,  add the required  dimensions  and enable  the 
'MeasureNames'  Dimension  check- box if you need  to add measures  to a color  table.
Click  OK to add the color  table  to a color  scheme.  Then,  you can add values  to this table  (see Add 
a New Value)  and specify  its colors  (see Edit Colors).
BIViewer Guide 404Appearance Customization
Data  Analysis
This section  describes  how to perform  advanced  data analysis  using  the aggregate  and window  
functions,  dashboard  parameters,  etc.
Aggregations
Topics  in this section  describe  functions  used  to introduce  additional  aggregation  levels  to 
prepare  underlying  data.
Summary  Level  Aggregations
The BI Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to perform  aggregations  when  constructing  a calculated  
field expression.  This allows  you to evaluate  calculated  fields  on a summary  level.
In the BI Dashboard  Designer,  you can use the following  set of predefined  aggregate  functions.
BIViewer Guide 405Data Analysis
Function Description
Aggr
(SummaryExpression,  
Dimensions)Aggregates  underlying  data using  the detail  level specified  by a 
predefined  set of dimensions  and a specified  summary  
function.  To learn  more,  see Intermediate  Level  Aggregations.   
Avg(Value) Returns theaverage ofallthevalues inthe expression.
Count () Returns thenumber ofvalues.
CountDistinct (Value) Returns thenumber ofdistinct  values.
BIViewer Guide 406Data Analysis
Max(Value) Returns themaximum value across all records.
Min(Value) Returns theminimum value across allrecords.
Median (Value) Returns themedian ofthevalues.
Sum(Value) Returns thesumofall values.
Var(Value) Returns  an estimate  of the variance  of a population  where  the 
sample  is a subset  of the entire  population.
Varp (Value) Returns  the variance  of a population  where  the population  isthe entire  data to 
besummarized.
StdDev
(Value)Returns  an estimate  of the standard  deviation  of a 
population where thesample isasubset oftheentire  population.
StdDevp
(Value)Returns  the standard  deviation  of a population  where  the population  is the 
entire  data to besummarized.
These  functions  can be used  for all types  of numeric  fields
Intermediate  Level  Aggregations
The Dashboard  can aggregate  and summarize  data on different  levels.
 lThe Query  Builder  allows  you to prepare  an underlying  data source  before  analyzing  data.  
You can apply  grouping,  sorting,  summarization  and other  data shaping  operations  during  
data selection.
BIViewer Guide 407Data Analysis
 lDashboard  items  aggregate  and summarize  data at a visualization  level using  dimensions  
and measures,  respectively.  
 lThe Aggr  function  allows  you to introduce  an intermediate  detail  level that is not related  to 
the visualization  level.  This allows  you to create  custom  aggregations  at different  levels  and 
combine  these  aggregations  with existing  visualizations.
The Aggr  function  aggregates  and summarizes  underlying  data using  the detail  level specified  by 
a predefined  set of dimensions  and a specified  summary  function.  This function  can be used  
during  the creation  of a new calculated  field in the Expression  Editor.
The Aggr  function  has the following  syntax:
C#  
Aggr (summaryExpression, dimension1, dimension2, ...)
The first argument  is a summary  expression  calculated  against  a specific  data source  field.  The 
next arguments  are the set of dimensions  whose  values  are aggregated  and used  to calculate  
summaries  specified  using  the first argument.  For instance,  the following  function  calculates  sums  
of sales  for each  product  within  the specified  category.
C#  
Aggr (Sum ([Sales]), [Category], [Product])
If you created  the calculated  field that includes  the Aggr  function  and dropped  the created  field 
into an existing  dashboard  item,  the Dashboard  joins the resulting  aggregation  with the already  
displayed  data.  This means  that you can add data with the increased  or decreased  granularity  to 
the dashboard  item.  There  are two main  scenarios.
In the first scenario,  an aggregation  has a less detailed  granularity  than visualized  data.
In this scenario,  an underlying  data source  contains  the list of orders  for two categories  and 
corresponding  products.
BIViewer Guide 408Data Analysis
To aggregate  this data by individual  categories,  create  a calculated  field with the following  
expression.
C#  
Aggr (Sum ([Sales]), [Category])
The following  internal  table  will be generated  for this calculated  field.
The sample  Grid dashboard  item contains  more  detailed  data and includes  the following  columns:  
Category,  Product,  and the sum of Sales.
BIViewer Guide 409Data Analysis
If you drop the created  calculated  field to the Grid,  the sum of sales  for each  category  will be 
repeated  for each  Grid row.
For instance,  you can use these  values  later to calculate  a contribution  of each  product  to a 
categorys  sales.
An aggregation  has a more  detailed  granularity  than visualized  data.
To aggregate  this data by categories  and products,  create  a calculated  field with the following  
expression.
C#  
Aggr (Sum ([Sales]), [Category], [Product])
The following  internal  table  will be generated  for this calculated  field.
Drop  the created  calculated  field to the Grid and set its summary  type to Min. The Grid will display  
minimum  product  sales  within  each  category.
BIViewer Guide 410Data Analysis
Example  1: Best/Worst  Sales  by Year
The following  example  shows  how to display  best and worst  monthly  sales  for each  year.
In this example,  the Chart  dashboard  item shows  the sum of sales  by different  years.  The Sales  
field is placed  in the Values  section  and the OrderDate  (with  the Year  group  interval)  is placed  in 
the Arguments  section.
To display  sales  by the best/worst  months  for each  year,  create  a new calculated  field with the 
following  expression.
C#  
Aggr (Sum ([Sales]), GetYear ([OrderDate]), GetMonth ([OrderDate]))
BIViewer Guide 411Data Analysis
Drop  this field (Sales  by Year/M  on th in the image  below)  to the Values  section  and set its 
summary  type to Max. Then,  drop this field to Values  again  and set its summary  type to Min. The 
Chart  will visualize  sales  by the best/  worst  months  in a year.
Example  2: Percent  of Total
This example  will demonstrate  how to calculate  a contribution  of individual  quarter  sales  to year 
sales.
In this example,  the Pivot  dashboard  item displays  the sum of sales  by year/quarter.  The Sales  
field is placed  in the Values  section  and the hierarchy  of OrderDate  fields  (with  the Year  and 
Quarter  group  intervals)  is placed  in Rows.
BIViewer Guide 412Data Analysis
To calculate  a contribution  of each  quarter  to a year sales,  do the following:
 1. Calculate  totals  for each  year using  the Aggr  function  by creating  the following  calculated  
field.
 2. C#  
Aggr (Sum ([Sales]), GetYear ([OrderDate]))
 3. Set the name  of the created  field to Sales  by Year .
 4. Calculate  a contribution  of each  quarter  to year sales  by creating  the following  calculated  
field.
 5. C#  
Sum([Sales]) /Max([Sales byYear])
 6. Name  this field Percent  of Total  and drop it to Values  to see the result.
BIViewer Guide 413Data Analysis
Example  3: Customer  Acquisition
In this example,  a customer  acquisition  will be evaluated  by grouping  customers  by the 
quarter/year  of their first purchase  to compare  sales  contributions.
The Chart  dashboard  item below  visualizes  sales  by quarter/year.
BIViewer Guide 414Data Analysis
The following  expression  determines  the minimum  order  date (the first purchase  date)  per 
customer.
C#  
Aggr (Min(GetDateQuarterYear ([OrderDate])), [CustomerID])
Set the name  of the created  field to Customer  First  Order  and drop this field to the Series  
section  to see the result.
Example  4: Customer  Order  Count
In this example,  you will learn  how to divide  customers  count  by the number  of orders  they made.  
The Chart  below  shows  the number  of orders  that is made  by each  customer.
BIViewer Guide 415Data Analysis
The calculated  field below  evaluates  the number  of unique  orders  made  by each  customer.
C#  
Aggr (CountDistinct ([OrderID]), [CustomerID])
Set the name  of this field to Customer  Order  Coun t and drop this field to arguments.  Then,  drop 
the CustomerID  field to Values  and change  its summary  type to Count  Distinct .
The Chart  will show  the number  of customers  that made  a specific  number  of orders.
BIViewer Guide 416Data Analysis
Example  5: Best  Product  Sales  by Year
This scenario  requires  the use of nested  aggregations.  In this example,  the dashboard  will show  
products  with the best sales  in a year along  with sales  values.
The initial  Grid dashboard  item shows  sales  of all products  by year (the OrderDate  column  with 
the Year  group  interval  and the Sales  column).  The data source  also contains  the Product  Name  
field.
To implement  this scenario,  perform  the following  steps.
Create  the calculated  field that will return  product  sales  for individual  years.
C#  
Aggr (Sum ([Sales]), GetYear ([OrderDate]), [ProductName])
Set its name  to Product  Sales  by Year .
Create  the calculated  field that will return  maximum  sales  values.
C#  
BIViewer Guide 417Data Analysis
Aggr (Max ([Product Sales byYear]), GetYear ([OrderDate]))
Set its name  to Max Product  Sales  by Year .
Finally,  create  a calculated  field returning  the name  of the product  with the best sales  and a 
corresponding  sales  value.
C#  
Iif([Max Product Sales byYear] =[Product Sales byYear], [ProductName] +'($'+[Product Sa 
Specify  the name  as Best  Sales  Product . Then,  drop this field to the Columns  section  to see the 
result.
Window  Calculations
Window  calculations  provide  the capability  to apply  specific  computations  to measure  values  and 
allow  you to perform  different  analytical  tasks  such  as to compute  running  totals,  percentages  of 
totals,  differences,  etc.
BIViewer Guide 418Data Analysis
Window  calculations  provide  the capability  to apply  specific  computations  to measure  values  and 
allow  you to perform  different  analytical  tasks  such  as to compute  running  totals,  percentages  of 
totals,  differences,  etc.
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to apply  window  calculations  to values  of the specified  
measure.  The following  calculation  types  are supported:
Running  Total : Allows  you to calculate  a cumulative  total for a set of measure  values.
BIViewer Guide 419Data Analysis
Moving  Calculation : Allows  you to apply  a moving  calculation,  which  uses  neighboring  values  to 
calculate  a total.  Note  that neighboring  values  are specified  using  offsets  from the currently  
processed  value.
Difference : Allows  you to compute  differences  between  measure  values.
Percent  of Total : Allows  you to calculate  a contribution  of individual  measure  values  to a total.
Rank : Allows  you to rank values  of the specified  measure.
BIViewer Guide 420Data Analysis
Note  that the computing  of calculations  depends  on two factors:
 lThe type of the dashboard  item.  In this case,  you need  to specify  a calculation  direction  that 
depends  on the dashboard  item type.  For instance,  the Pivot  dashboard  item provides  the 
capability  to apply  calculations  along  with its columns  or rows.
 lThe set of dimensions  that are used  to calculate  measure  values.  In this case,  a calculation  
direction  depends  on the dimensions'  order.
In both cases,  measure  values  participating  in a calculation  fall into a specified  window.
Dashboard  Item Window  Definition
The following  table  lists window  definitions  in terms  of the Pivot  dashboard  item.  A calculation  is 
performed  using  the Index  function  along  the following  directions.
Direction Description Example  
Description
BIViewer Guide 421Data Analysis
Columns A calculation  is performed  
horizontally  through  Pivot  
columns.In this example,  a 
window  is a 
combination  of 
Country/Category  
dimensions.
Rows A calculation  is performed  
vertically  through  Pivot  
rows.In this example,  a 
window  is a 
combination  of 
Year/Quarter  
dimensions.
Columns/Rows A calculation  is performed  horizontally  
through  Pivot  columns  then rows.In this 
example,  a 
window  is 
the entire  
pivot  table.
Rows/Columns A calculation  is performed  vertically  
through  Pivot  rows  then columnsIn this 
example,  a 
window  is 
the entire  
pivot  table.
BIViewer Guide 422Data Analysis
Columns  
within  
GroupsA calculation  is performed  
horizontally  through  pivot  
columns  within  groups.In this example,  a window  is a 
combination  of the 
Country/Category  and Year  
dimensions
.
Rows  within  
GroupsA calculation  is performed  
vertically  through  pivot  
rows  within  groups.In this example,  a window  is a 
combination  of the 
Year/Quarter  and Country  
dimensions.
Columns/Rows  
within  GroupsA calculation  is performed  
horizontally  through  pivot  
columns  then rows  within  
groups.In this example,  a 
window  is a 
combination  of 
Country/Year  
dimensions.
BIViewer Guide 423Data Analysis
Rows/Columns  
within  GroupsA calculation  is performed  
vertically  through  pivot  rows  
then columns  within  groupsIn this example,  a 
window  is a 
combination  of 
Country/Year  
dimensions.
*Group : An area that is limited  by a set of values  corresponding  to the bottommost  partitioning  
dimensions.
Specific  Window  Definition
If necessary,  you can manually  specify  the set of dimensions  that fall into the window.  These  
dimensions  are called  window  dimensions.
For instance,  the Index  function  is applied  to measure  values  of the pivot  table  below  using  the 
Order  Date  (Year)  and Country  window  dimensions.
The Specific  Window  Definition  dialog  allows  you to do this.
BIViewer Guide 424Data Analysis
Creating  Window  Calculations
The Dashboard  Designer  allows  you to add a window  calculation  for numeric  measures.  To do 
this, invoke  the data item menu  and select  the required  calculation  type.
BIViewer Guide 425Data Analysis
The image  above  shows  a calculation  menu  of the Pivot  dashboard  item.  The following  items  are 
available:
 lPercent  of Column  Grand  Total : Calculates  a contribution  of individual  measure  values  to 
a column  grand  total.
 lPercent  of Row  Grand  Total : Calculates  a contribution  of individual  measure  values  to a 
row grand  total.
 lPercent  of Grand  Total : Calculates  a contribution  of individual  measure  values  to a grand  
total.
BIViewer Guide 426Data Analysis
 lRunning  Summary  along  Columns : Calculates  a cumulative  total for measure  values  
along  columns  (horizontally).
 lRunning  Summary  along  Rows : Calculates  a cumulative  total for measure  values  along  
rows  (vertically).  
 lDifference  along  Columns : Calculates  differences  between  measure  values  along  
columns  (horizontally).  
 lDifference  along  Rows : Calculates  differences  between  measure  values  along  rows  
(vertically).
 lPercent  Difference  along  Columns : Calculates  percentage  differences  between  
measure  values  along  columns  (horizontally).
 lPercent  Difference  along  Rows : Calculates  percentage  differences  between  measure  
values  along  rows  (vertically).
 lRank  along  Columns : Ranks  measure  values  along  columns  (horizontally).
 lRank  along  Rows : Ranks  measure  values  along  rows  (vertically).
 lRank  along  Cells : Ranks  measure  values  along  cells (throughout  the entire  pivot  table).
 lCustom... : Allows  you to create  a custom  calculation  by specifying  various  settings.  
Clicking  this invokes  the Customize  Calculation  dialog  that allows  you to add additional  
customizations  to
BIViewer Guide 427Data Analysis
Note  that the list of available  items  in this menu  can be changed  by the Dashboard  Designer  
dynamically.  For instance,  if the Pivot  dashboard  item does  not contain  dimensions  in the Rows  
section,  menu  items  related  to rows  will be disabled.
Running  Total
The Running  Total  calculation  can be used  to compute  a cumulative  total for the specified  
measure  across  a window . For example,  the Grid below  displays  cumulative  sales  across  all 
quarters.
BIViewer Guide 428Data Analysis
The Customize  Calculation  dialog  provides  the following  settings  for the Running  Total  
calculation.
Running  along : Specifies  a window  and direction  used  to calculate  running  totals.
BIViewer Guide 429Data Analysis
Summary  function : Specifies  a summary  function  used  to apply  calculation.  To learn  more  about  
the available  summary  functions,  see the Summary  Function  Types  in the summary  function  
topic.
Moving  Calculation
The Moving  calculation  uses  neighboring  values  to calculate  a total.  For example,  the Grid below  
shows  a moving  average  across  all quarters.
The Customize  Calculation  dialog  provides  the following  settings  for the Moving  calculation.
BIViewer Guide 430Data Analysis
Moving  along : Specifies  a window  and direction  used  to apply  a calculation.
Summary  function : Specifies  a summary  function  used  to apply  a calculation.  To learn  more  
about  the available  summary  functions,  see the Summary  Function  Types  in the summary  
function  topic.
Start  offset  / End offset : Specify  start/end  offsets  from the currently  processed  value.  For 
instance,  if you specified  offsets  as 1/1, the previous  and next values  will be used  along  with the 
current  value  to apply  the Moving  calculation.
Difference
The Difference  calculation  can be used  to compute  the difference  between  measure  values  
across  a window.  For example,  the Grid below  shows  absolute  differences  between  quarterly  
sales.
BIViewer Guide 431Data Analysis
The Customize  Calculation  dialog  provides  the following  settings  for the Difference  calculation.
Calculate  along : Specifies  a window  and direction  used  to calculate  differences.
Difference  from : Specifies  the value  used  to calculate  the difference.  The following  values  are 
available:  Previous,  Next,  First and Last.
BIViewer Guide 432Data Analysis
You can also use the Percent  Difference  option  to specify  whether  the absolute  or percentage  
difference  is displayed.
Percent  of Total
A calculation  is used  to compute  a percentage  of the total for the specified  measure  across  a 
window.  For example,  the Grid below  shows  a contribution  of individual  quarterly  sales  to total 
sales.
The Customize  Calculation  dialog  provides  the following  settings  for the Percent  of Total  
calculation.
BIViewer Guide 433Data Analysis
Percent  of Total : Specifies  a window  and direction  used  to apply  a Percent  of Total  calculation.
Rank
Use the Rank  calculation  to compute  rankings  for the specified  measure  across  a window.  For 
example,  the Grid below  shows  a ranking  of sales  for individual  quarters.
BIViewer Guide 434Data Analysis
The Customize  Calculation  dialog  provides  the following  settings  for the Rank  calculation.
Rank  along : Specifies  a window  and direction  used  to rank values.
Rank  type: Specifies  the type of ranking.  The following  rank types  are available:  Unique,  
Competition,  Dense,  Modified  and Percentile.
Order : Specifies  the order  of ranking.  You can select  Ascending  or Descending.
Expression
Use Expression  to specify  a custom  calculation  by adding  the required  calculation  functions  inside  
the measure  expression.
BIViewer Guide 435Data Analysis
Click  the Edit in Expression  Editor  button  to invoke  the Expression  Editor  and specify  the 
required  expression.
BIViewer Guide 436Data Analysis
The Expression  type provides  the Calculate  along  option  that specifies  the window  and direction  
used  to calculate  differences.  Note  that this option  is in effect  if the expression  contains  a 
calculation  function.
Calculation  Functions  Reference
This topic  contains  the descriptions  of window  functions  that can be used  to specify  measure  
expressions.
 
Function  & Description Example Image
BIViewer Guide 437Data Analysis
Last()
Returns  the number  of 
rows  from the current  row 
to the last row in the 
window.Last()
First()
Returns  the number  of 
rows  from the current  row 
to the first row in the 
window.First()
Index  ()
Returns  the index  of the 
current  row in the window.Index ()
Size()
Returns  the number  of 
rows  in the window.Size()
BIViewer Guide 438Data Analysis
Lookup  (Summary  
Expression,  Position)  
Returns  the value  of the 
expression  in a target  
position  specified  as a 
relative  offset  from the 
current  position.  Lookup (Sum  ([Sales]),  3)
 
Ran Competition  
(Summary  Expression,  [ 
'asc' | 'desc'  ]) 
Returns  the standard  
competition  rank for the 
current  row in the window.
 RankCompeti  tion (Sum  
([Sales]),  'asc')  -
RankDense  
(SummaryExpression,  [ 
'asc' | 'desc'  ]) 
Returns  the dense  rank 
for the current  row in the 
window.  RankDense  (Sum  
([Sales]),  'asc')  -
BIViewer Guide 439Data Analysis
RankUnique  
(SummaryExpression,  [ 
'asc' | 'desc'  ]) 
Returns  the unique  rank 
for the current  row in the 
window.RankUnique  (Sum  
([Sales]),  'asc')  -
RankM  odified  (Summ  
aryExpression,  [ 'asc' | 
'desc'  ]) 
Returns  the modified  
competition  rank for the 
current  row in the window.
 RankModified  (Sum  
([Sales]),  'asc')  -
RankPercentile  
(SummaryExpression,  [ 
'asc' | 'desc'  ]) 
Returns  the percentile  
rank for the current  row in 
the window.RankPercentile (Sum  
([Sales]),  'desc')  -
BIViewer Guide 440Data Analysis
RunningAvg  (Summ  
aryExpression)  
Returns  the running  
average  of the specified  
expression  from the first 
row in the window  to the 
current  row. Runnin  gAvg  (Sum  
([Sales]))  
RunningCount  (Summ  
aryExpression)  
Returns  the running  count  
of the specified  
expression  from the first 
row in the window  to the 
current  row. RunningCount (Sum  
([Sales]))  -
RunningMax  
(SummaryExpression)  
Returns  the running  
maximum  of the specified  
expression  from the first 
row in the window  to the 
current  row. RunningMax  (Sum  
([Sales]))  
BIViewer Guide 441Data Analysis
RunningMin  
(SummaryExpression)  
Returns  the running  
minimum  of the specified  
expression  from the first 
row in the window  to the 
current  row. RunningMin  (Sum  
([Sales]))  
RunningSum  
(SummaryExpression)  
Returns  the running  sum 
of the specified  
expression  from the first 
row in the window  to the 
current  row. RunningSum  (Sum  
([Sales]))  
WindowAvg  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)  
Returns  the average  of 
the expression  within  the 
window,  which  is define  d 
using  offsets  from the 
current  row. WindowAvg  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) 
BIViewer Guide 442Data Analysis
WindowCount  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)  
Returns  the count  of the 
expression  within  the 
window.WindowCount  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First() +2, Last
()) 
WindowCountDistinct  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOff  set)
Returns  the distinct  count  
of the expression  within  
the window.   WindowCountDistinct  
(Sum  ([Sales]),  First(), 
Last()) -
Window  Max 
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)  
Returns  the maximum  of 
the expression  within  the 
window.WindowMax  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) 
BIViewer Guide 443Data Analysis
WindowMin  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)  
Returns  the minimum  of 
the expression  within  the 
window.WindowMin  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) 
Window  Median  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOff  set)
Returns  the median  of the
 expression  within  the 
window.  Window  Median  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) 
WindowSum  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)
Returns  the sum of the 
expression  within  the 
window.   WindowSum  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First() +2, Last
()) 
BIViewer Guide 444Data Analysis
WindowVar  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)  
Returns  the variance  of 
the expression  within  
thewindow.  WindowVar  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) -
WindowVarp  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)
Returns  the biased  
variance  of the 
expression  within  the 
window.   WindowVarp  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) -
WindowStdDev  
(SummaryExpressio  n, 
StartOffset,  EndOffset)
Returns  the sample  
standard  deviation  of the 
expression  within  the 
window.  WindowStdDev  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last())  -
BIViewer Guide 445Data Analysis
WindowStdDevp  
(SummaryExpression,  
StartOffset,  EndOffset)
Returns  the biased  
standard  deviation  of the 
expression  within  the 
window.   WindowStdDevp  (Sum  
([Sales]),  First(), Last()) -
Total  
(SummaryExpression)  
Returns  the total for the 
specified  expression  in a 
calculation  window.  Note  
that the Total  function  
calculates  the total based  
on values  from the 
underlying  data source.Total  (Sum  ([Sales]))  
Note  that window  functions  cannot  be used  inside  Aggr .
Window  Calculation  Limitations
Supported  Dashboard  Items
Window  calculations  can be applied  to measures  of the following  dashboard  items:
BIViewer Guide 446Data Analysis
 lChart
 lGrid
 lPies
 lCards
 lGauges
 lPivot
 lRange  Filter
Data  Shaping  Limitations
The use of calculations  imposes  the following  limitations  related  to data shaping  features.
 lSorting  by measure  cannot  be applied  if the target  measure  has a calculation  applied.  
 lTop N cannot  be applied  if its target  measure  has a calculation.
Using  Dashboard  Parameters
You can use dashboard  parameters  when  it is necessary  to pass  data of a certain  type to a 
dashboard  (e.g.,  to pass  a specific  value  to the data source  filter string  or a calculated  field).
Creating  Parameters
This topic  explains  how to create  a new dashboard  parameter  and specify  its settings.
Creating  Parameters  in the Dashboard  Designer
To create  dashboard  parameters  in the Dashboard  Designer,  do the following:
BIViewer Guide 447Data Analysis
 1. Click  the Parameters  button  on the Ribbon's  Data  Source  tab.
 2. In the invoked  dialog,  click the Add button  to add a new parameter.
BIViewer Guide 448Data Analysis
 3. Specify  the following  settings:
 lVisible : Specifies  whether  or not the parameter  editor  is visible  in the Dashboard  
Parameters  dialog.
 lAllow  Null: Specifies  whether  or a not null value  can be passed  as a parameter  
value.
 lAllow  Multiselect : Specifies  whether  or not multi- selection  is enabled  for the current  
parameter.  The following  limitations  are applied  to parameters  with multi- selection  
enabled.
 lUse the is any of or is none  of operators  to pass  a multi- select  parameter  to a filter 
criteria  or to the Expression  format  condition.
 lUse the In or Not In operators  to pass  a multi- select  parameter  to a calculated  field 
expression.  Stored  procedures  used  in the SQL data source  do not support  multi-
select  parameters.
 lName : Specifies  the parameter  name.  When  creating  and modifying  parameter  
names,  follow  the rules  below.
 oA name  can contain  letters,  numbers  and underscores.  
A name  cannot  contain  spaces.  
A name  cannot  be an empty  string.
 oThe dashboard  cannot  contain  parameters  with the same  name.
 oNames  are case- sensitive.  For example,  you can create  the names  Parameter  
and PARAMETER  .
 lDescription : Specifies  the parameter's  description.  The parameter's  description  is 
the value  displayed  in the Parameter  Name  column  of the Dashboard  Parameters  
dialog.
BIViewer Guide 449Data Analysis
 lLook- Up Settings : Specifies  the parameter's  look- up editor  settings.
 lSelect  All Values : Specifies  whether  or not all parameter  values  should  be selected  
in the initial  state  of the Dashboard  Viewer.
 oNote  that this option  is in effect  when  Allow  Multiselect  is set to true.
 lType : Specifies  the parameter  type.
 lValue : Specifies  the default  parameters  value.  Note  that when  Allow  Multiselect  is 
set to true, the
 oValue  option  allows  you to select  multiple  parameter  values.  Then,  click OK to 
add the created  parameters  to the dashboard.
Look- Up Editor  Settings
There  are three  types  of look- up editor  settings  that can be specified  for a parameter.  Select  the 
required  type from the Look- UpSettings  drop- down  list.
No Look- Up: Set the Value  to use a static  value  as a parameter.
Static  List: Click  the ellipsis  button  to add static  values  for the current  dashboard  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 450Data Analysis
In this case,  the Value  specifies  the default  parameter's  value.
Dynamic  List: Allows  you to use a list of values  from the existing  data source  as a parameter.  
You need  to select  the required  Data  Source  from the list of available  data sources  and data 
members  for the dashboard  parameter's  display  name  and value,  respectively.
 1. First,  select  the required  Data  Source  from the list of available  data sources.  For the SQL 
data source,  select  the required  Data  Member  that specifies  the query  from the selected  
Data  Source.
BIViewer Guide 451Data Analysis
 2. Then,  specify  data members  for the dashboard  parameter's  value  and display  name  using  
Value  Member  and Display  Member , respectively.
 3. If necessary,  specify  the data member  used  to sort parameter  values  using  the Sort By 
option.  Sort Order  specifies  the required  sort order.
Passing  Parameter  Values
In this topic,  you will learn  how to pass  parameter  values  to a dashboard.
Filtering
You can filter the specified  query  or apply  filtering  to a specific  dashboard  item according  to the 
current  parameter  value (s) using  the Filter  Editor.
In the Filter  Editor,  you can compare  a field value  with the following  objects:
 lA static  value  (represented  by the 
 icon).  Click  this button  to switch  to the next item mode  
("another  field value"),  to compare  the field value  with another  field value.
 lAnother  field value  (represented  by 
 the icon).  Click  this button  to switch  to the next item 
mode  (parameter  value),  to compare  the field value  with a parameter  value.
 lA parameter  value  (represented  by 
 the icon).  Click  this button  to switch  back  to the initial  
mode  ("static  value"),  to compare  the field value  with a static  value.
Thus,  to compare  a field value  with a parameter  value,  click the 
 button,  then click the 
 button.
BIViewer Guide 452Data Analysis
Calculated  Fields
You can use parameters  when  constructing  expressions  for calculated  fields.  This allows  you to 
dynamically  evaluate  values  of the calculated  field depending  on the current  parameter  value.
To include  the required  parameter  in the calculated  field expression,  click Parameters  in the 
Expression  Editor  dialog  and double- click the required  parameter.
BIViewer Guide 453Data Analysis
Window  Calculations
You can use parameters  when  customizing  expressions  for window  calculations.  This allows  you 
to apply  a calculation  dynamically,  depending  on the current  parameter  value.
BIViewer Guide 454Data Analysis
Requesting  Parameter  Values
The BI Dashboard  provides  a built- in Dashboard  Parameters  dialog,  which  provides  the capability  
to change  dashboard  parameter  values.  This dialog  is created  automatically,  depending  on the 
parameter  type and visibility  settings.
To invoke  the Dashboard  Parameters  dialog  in the Dashboard  Designer,  click the Parameters  (
) button  in the dashboard  title. Depending  on the visibility  state  of the created  dashboard  
parameters,  this invokes  the following  dialog.
BIViewer Guide 455Data Analysis
Select  the required  parameter  values  in the Dashboard  Parameters  dialog  and click the Submit  
button  to apply  the changes.
To reset  the changes  to the default  values,  click the Reset  button.
BIViewer Guide 456Data Analysis
Printing  and Exporting
The Dashboard  Designer  provides  the capability  to print or export  an entire  dashboard  and 
individual  items.
Printing  and Exporting  Dashboards
To print or export  the entire  dashboard,  click the 
 button  in the dashboard  title area and choose  
the required  action.
Print  Preview...
Allows  you to customize  the document  before  printing/exporting.  For instance,  the following  
settings  can be changed:  the orientation  and size of the printed  page,  page  margins,  etc.
BIViewer Guide 457Printing andExporting
Printing  and Exporting  Dashboard  Items
To print or export  a dashboard  item,  click the   
 button  in its caption  and choose  the required  
action.
Print  Preview... : Allows  you to customize  the document  before  printing/exporting.
Export  to PDF: Invokes  a corresponding  dialog  that allows  you to export  a dashboard  to a PDF 
file with specific  options.
Export  to Image : Invokes  a corresponding  dialog  that allows  you to export  a dashboard  to image  
in the specified  format.
Export  to Excel : Invokes  a corresponding  dialog  that allows  you to export  a dashboard  item's  
data to the Excel  workbook  or CSV file.
BIViewer Guide 458Printing andExporting
Print  Preview
This document  describes  the Print Preview  window,  which  displays  the dashboard/dashboard  
item as it will appear  on paper.
Specific  Options
In the Print Preview,  you can change  the orientation  and size of the printed  page,  specify  the 
margins,  scale  the document,  etc.  You can also customize  printing  options  specific  to a 
dashboard/dashboard  item.  To do this, click the Options  button  in the Print group.  When  
previewing  the dashboard,  the following  Options  dialog  will be invoked:  
BIViewer Guide 459Printing andExporting
Show  Title: Specifies  whether  or not to show  the dashboard  title/dashboard  item caption  as the 
printed  document  title.
Title: Specifies  the title of the printed  document.
Include  | Filters : Allows  you to include  master  filter values  to the printed  document.
Include  | Parameters : Allows  you to include  parameter  values  to the printed  document.
Position : Specifies  the position  of the master  filter and parameter  values  in the printed  document.  
You can select  between  Below  and Separate  Page.
This dialog  can contain  different  options,  depending  on the dashboard  item.  
Export  Data
You can export  data to different  formats.
 1. Click  Print  Preview  to review  the data that you will export.
BIViewer Guide 460Printing andExporting
 2. Click  Export  and choose  the format.  For example,  if you want  to see the data in Excel,  click 
XLS File.
BIViewer Guide 461Printing andExporting
 3. The results  will show  in Excel.
Group  Data
 1. Right- click and choose  Show  Group  Panel .
BIViewer Guide 462Printing andExporting
 2. You can drag and drop your column  groups  into the header.
 3. Giving  you different  ways  to visualize  your data.
BIViewer Guide 463Printing andExporting
 4. You can also filter,  move  columns,  and hide columns.
 5. Click  Print  Preview  to see your results.
BIViewer Guide 464Printing andExporting
Export  to PDF
Invokes  a corresponding  dialog  that allows  you to export  a dashboard  to a PDF file with specific  
options.  The following  options  are available.
Page  Layout : Specifies  the page  orientation  used  to export  a dashboard.  You can select  
between  Portrait,  Landscape,  and Auto.  Note  that in the Auto mode,  page  orientation  is selected  
automatically  depending  on the horizontal  and vertical  sizes  of a dashboard.
Size: Specifies  the standard  paper  size (for instance,  Letter  or A4).
Show  Title: Specifies  whether  or not to apply  the dashboard  title to the exported  document  title.
Title: Specifies  the title of the exported  document.
BIViewer Guide 465Printing andExporting
Scale  Mode : Specifies  the mode  for scaling  when  exporting  a dashboard.  This option  is in effect  
when  Page  Layout  is set to a value  different  from Auto.
Scale  Factor : Specifies  the scale  factor  (in fractions  of 1) by which  a dashboard  is scaled.  This 
option  is in effect  if Scale  Mode  is set to Use Scale  Factor .
Auto  Fit Page  Count : Specifies  the number  of horizontal/vertical  pages  spanning  the total 
width/height  of a dashboard.  This option  is in effect  if Scale  Mode  is set to Auto  Fit to Page  
Width .
Include  | Filters : Allows  you to include  master  filter values  to the exported  document.
Include  | Parameters : Allows  you to include  parameter  values  to the exported  document.
Position : Specifies  the position  of the master  filter and parameter  values  in the exported  
document.  You can select  between  Below  and Separate  Page.
Export  to Image
Invokes  a corresponding  dialog  that allows  you to export  a dashboard  to an image  in the specified  
format.  The following  options  are available.
BIViewer Guide 466Printing andExporting
Image  Format : Specifies  the image  format  in which  the dashboard  is exported.  The following  
formats  are available:  PNG,  JPEG,  and GIF.
Show  Title: Specifies  whether  or not to apply  the dashboard  title to the exported  document  title.
Title: Specifies  the title of the exported  document.
Resolution  (dpi) : Specifies  the resolution  (in dpi) used  to export  a dashboard.
Include  | Filters : Allows  you to include  master  filter values  to the exported  document.
Include  | Parameters : Allows  you to include  parameter  values  to the exported  document.
Export  to Excel
Invokes  a corresponding  dialog  that allows  you to export  dashboard's  data to the Excel  file. The 
following  options  are available:
BIViewer Guide 467Printing andExporting
Excel  Format : Specifies  the Excel  workbook  format  in which  the dashboard's  data is exported.  
You can select  between  XL SX and XL S.
Include  | Filters : Allows  you to include  master  filter values  to the exported  document.
Include  | Parameters : Allows  you to include  parameter  values  to the exported  document.
Position : Specifies  the position  of the master  filter and parameter  values  in the exported  
document.  You can select  between  Below  and Separate  Sheet.
Specify  the required  options  in the invoked  dialog  and click the Export  button  to export  the 
dashboard.  To reset  changes  to the default  values,  click the Reset  button.
BIViewer Guide 468Printing andExporting
Rename  Table  Connections
This tab in the BI Designer  is designed  to Rename  Table  Connections  in the event  the Results  
Table  Name  from the Data  Adapter  changes  names  in the existing  or new Dashboard  
Maintenance  Unit. When  a user changes  the referenced  results  table  name,  the table  connection  
can be reestablished  by pointing  the BI Designer  to the correct  table  using  this utility.
Existing  BI Dashboard  missing  original  table  connection  from data adapter.  The dashboard  items  
exist but without  the supporting  data.
BI Designer  XF Tools  menu  to access  the Rename  Table  Connections  utility.
BIViewer Guide 469Rename Table Connections
Reestablish  table  connection  using  the utility.
Existing  BI Dashboard  with reestablished  table  connection  from data adapter  using  Rename  
Table  Connections  utility.  Data  returns  and redraws  the BI Dashboard.
BIViewer Guide 470Rename Table Connections
BIViewer Guide 471Rename Table Connections