BrowserUX Early 
Access Programs 
Guide
8.2.4 Release

Copyright  © 2024  OneStream  Software  LLC.  All rights  reserved.
Any warranty  with respect  to the software  or its functionality  will be expressly  given  in the 
Subscription  License  Agreement  or Software  License  and Services  Agreement  between  
OneStream  and the warrantee.  This document  does  not itself constitute  a representation  or 
warranty  with respect  to the software  or any related  matter.
OneStream  Software,  OneStream,  Extensible  Dimensionality  and the OneStream  logo are 
trademarks  of OneStream  Software  LLC in the United  States  and other  countries.  Microsoft,  
Microsoft  Azure,  Microsoft  Office,  Windows,  Windows  Server,  Excel,  .NET  Framework,  Internet  
Information  Services,  Windows  Communication  Foundation  and SQL Server  are registered  
trademarks  or trademarks  of Microsoft  Corporation  in the United  States  and/or  other  countries.  
DevExpress  is a registered  trademark  of Developer  Express,  Inc. Cisco  is a registered  trademark  
of Cisco  Systems,  Inc. Intel is a trademark  of Intel Corporation.  AMD64  is a trademark  of 
Advanced  Micro  Devices,  Inc. Other  names  may be trademarks  of their respective  owners.
Table  of Contents
Disclaimer 1
About  This Guide 1
BrowserUX  Overview 2
Early  Access  Programs  Description 3
Private  Preview  Program 3
Limited  Availability  Program 4
General  Availability  Launch 4
New in BrowserUX  8.2 5
Workflow 5
Dashboard 7
Functional  Capabilities 7
BrowserUX  Implementation 8
Prerequisites  for BrowserUX  Implementation 8
System  Requirements 8
Setup  and Configuration 9
Authentication 9
Functional  Capabilities  of BrowserUX 10
General  User  Experience 10
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide iTable ofContents
Log in to BrowserUX 10
Log out of BrowserUX 11
Change  Applications 11
Header 12
OnePlace  Panel 12
Hide OnePlace  Panel 12
Navigate  OnePlace  Panel  Sections 13
File Explorer 14
Grids 14
Anchored  Dialogs 15
Cancel  Long- Running  Tasks 16
Workflow 18
Navigation 18
Supported  Workflow  Functionality 21
Workflow  Steps 21
General  Workflow  Functionality 21
Notable  Differences  from Windows  Application 22
Notable  Workflow  Functionality  Gaps 24
Workflow  Steps 24
General  Workflow  Functionality 24
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide iiTable ofContents
Navigating  Workflow  Step Gaps 24
Cube  Views 25
Supported  Cube  View  Functionality 25
Presentation 25
Toolbar  Functions 25
Cube  View  and Cell-Level  Context  Menu  Functions 26
Cube  View  Navigation 26
Cube  View  Drill Down 26
User  Experience  Differentiators 28
Notable  Functional  Gaps 28
Dashboards 29
Enabling  Dashboard  Access 29
Supported  Dashboard  Functionality 30
Dashboard  Layouts 30
Dashboard  Components 30
General  Dashboard  Functionality 30
Notable  Differences  from Windows  Application 31
Dashboard  Components 31
Notable  Dashboard  Functionality  Gaps 39
Dashboard  Layouts 39
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide iiiTable ofContents
Dashboard  Components 40
Navigating  Dashboard  Gaps 40
BrowserUX Dashboard  Design  Process 43
Multi- client/Device  Dashboard  Design  Approaches 43
Approach  1: Unified  Multi- client/Device  Dashboards 43
Approach  2: Client/Device  Specific  Dashboards 44
Approach  3: Client/Device  Adaptive  Dashboards 44
Documents 45
POV 47
Additional  Features 47
Modify  a POV 47
Save  a POV 48
Set a Saved  POV 49
Third- Party  Component  Technology 50
Appendix  A: Pivot  Grids 51
Calculated  Fields  Syntax 51
Keyboard Navigation  in Pivot  Grids 52
Chart  Types  in Pivot  Grids 59
Appendix  B: Advanced  Charts 61
Configuration  Properties 61
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide ivTable ofContents
Disclaimer
Anything  you see in this program  is subject  to change  and may or may not be included  in a 
generally  available  software  release.
About  This Guide
This guide  introduces  the OneStream  BrowserUX  client  interface  and highlights  the benefits  and 
differences  of using  this modern,  web- accessible  interface  for OneStream  end users.  This guide  
is intended  to:
 lFamiliarize  OneStream  end users,  power  users,  administrators,  partners,  and consultants  
with BrowserUX  navigational  features  and UI (user  interface)  elements.
 lProvide  prerequisites  and directions  for implementation  of BrowserUX  in a customer  
environment  during  various  stages  of development.
 lProvide  high- level information  about  supported  features  and capabilities,  general  usage  
patterns,  end-user flows,  and best practices.
 lProvide  high- level information  about  differences  between  the OneStream  BrowserUX  and 
Windows  Client.
NOTE:  This guide  is intended  for participants  in the OneStream  Early  Access  
programs  (for example,  Private  Preview  for non-production  use and Limited  
Availability  for production  use),  as well as for internal  OneStream  teams,  such  as 
Consulting  Services,  Sales,  and Customer  Support.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 1Disclaimer
BrowserUX  Overview
Welcome  to BrowserUX,  OneStream’s  latest  web- based  offering.  BrowserUX  works  alongside  
the existing  OneStream  Windows  Application  to give users  more  options  to access  their data 
across  a wide range  of devices.  In its initial  phases,  BrowserUX  delivers  a streamlined,  modern  
experience  that strives  to provide  comprehensive  coverage  of OnePlace  features.  With a strong  
foundation  in updated  technologies,  BrowserUX  will introduce  a suite  of innovative  designs  and 
improved  solutions  in future  releases.
While  we are representing  much  of the existing  end user functionality,  we are currently  not 
supporting  the use of MarketPlace  solutions  within  BrowserUX.  We will review  these  solutions  on 
a case- by-case  basis  and report  supported  solutions  in this documentation  in future  releases.  
Additionally,  you will notice  the System  and Application  Tabs  are not available  in BrowserUX.
The following  sections  highlight  benefits,  explore  differences,  and provide  current  limitations  to 
help customers  and partners  evaluate  BrowserUX  for their business  needs. 
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 2BrowserUX Overview
Early  Access  Programs  
Description
Early  Access  Programs  enable  OneStream  to validate  new platform  features  and solutions  with 
interested  customers,  gain feedback,  and continuously  improve  the product.
The BrowserUX  initiative  has completed  several  months  of customer  feedback  through  a "Hosted  
Private  Preview"  and now is enabling  BrowserUX  in customer's  cloud  and self-hosted  
environments.  Eligible  customers  for these  programs  must  exhibit  the following:
 lA prescribed  browser  use case  that OneStream  Product  & Engineering  feels  can be 
successful  with the targeted  platform  version.
 lThe use case  must  have  a targeted  audience,  intended  devices,  and defined  success  
criteria.
 lThe use case  must  have  go-to-production  intent;  meaning  that if the use case  is deemed  
successful  in a Private  Preview  experience,  the customer  will commit  to transitioning  the 
use case  to production.
 lCustomers  must  be willing  to upgrade  platform  releases  to receive  new or updated  
functionality.
 lCustomers  must  have  an early  adopter  spirit.
Interested  customers  can learn  more  about  the BrowserUX  initiative  by engaging  their Customer  
Success  Manager  who will arrange  a meeting  with the OneStream  product  team.
Private  Preview  Program
OneStream  Private  Previews  are intended  to extend  pre-General  Availability  platform  features  or 
solutions  to customers  for non-production  validation  and feedback.  Private  Previews  may be 
OneStream  hosted,  or installed  to customer  self-hosted  or cloud  environments.  They  are 
managed  by the Product  and Engineering  team  and there  is no commitment  to issue  resolution  
nor support  through  OneStream's  normal  support  ticketing  process.
All OneStream  BrowserUX  initiative  customer  engagements  commence  with a Private  Preview  
experience.  The agreed  upon  use case  is validated  in a non-production  instance  with a targeted  
audience  and defined  success  criteria.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 3Early Access Programs Description
Limited  Availability  Program
OneStream  Limited  Availability  programs  are for early  adopting  customers  to operate  new 
functionality  in their Production  instance,  under  OneStream's  full Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA).  
Features  and solutions  in Limited  Availability  are supported  by the normal  Support  ticketing  
process.
Features  or Solutions  in this program  are deemed  "Limited"  because  either  the intended  
functionality  is not yet complete,  or OneStream  is throttling  the adopting  customers  to ensure  
successful  learning  and support  across  the OneStream  and Partner  communities.
Successful  BrowserUX  Private  Preview  experiences  are eligible  for transition  to Production  under  
the Limited  Availability  program.  OneStream  is looking  to establish  BrowserUX  success  in the 
market  through  Limited  Availability  before  considering  a General  Availability  launch.
The release  of 8.1 BrowserUX  entered  into Limited  Availability.  For 8.2, BrowserUX  is remaining  
in Limited  Availability  and still seeking  customers  and partners  to participate  in the program.  
Customers  upgrading  to v8+ releases  are provided  the option  to have  BrowserUX  enabled  in their 
Non- Production  and Production  instances.
General  Availability  Launch
The culmination  of our efforts  is the General  Availability  launch.  At this point,  the product  is made  
available  to our entire  customer  base.  General  Availability  marks  the official  release,  showcasing  
the enhanced  capabilities  of BrowserUX.  The team  continues  supporting  and enhancing  the 
product  after BrowserUX  is made  generally  available.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 4Early Access Programs Description
New in BrowserUX  8.2
BrowserUX 8.2.0  introduces  a variety  of new features  across  the platform,  which  compliment  
earlier  delivered  functionality  to enable  a wider  range  of end users  needs.
BrowserUX  releases  features  significant  enhancements  to the User  Experience.  Release  8.2 
continues  to build  in the Workflow  and Dashboard  areas  to ensure  a cohesive  experience  for 
existing  Windows  Application  users.
Workflow
Feature Description
Dependent  
ActionsLock/Unlock  Descendants,  Corporate  Certification  Management,  and 
Corporate  Data  Control  are now available  in the Workflow  Status  menu.
Multi- Period  
ProcessingExecute  batch  actions  across  multiple  periods.  Accessible  in the 
Workflow  context  menu.
Grid Actions  
Moved  to 
Context  MenusFormerly  accessed  in Right- Click  menus,  Grid Actions  are now available  
in the Grid context  menu  to support  a smoother  experience  on touch  
devices.
Grid Keyboard  
FunctionalityEnabled  keyboard  navigation  on Grid types  throughout  the system.  
Users  have  access  to directional  keys as well as Enter  and Tab. 
Workflow  
NavigationQuickly  navigate  between  Workflow  Steps  with a dropdown  menu  in the 
page  title bar.
Journal  Export Export  journals  from the Journals  workflow  toolbar  to an XLSX  import  
template  file for the current  workflow  profile  and scenario.  This is useful  
when  you want  to import  journals  into another  application,  scenario,  or 
workflow  profile  without  needing  a business  rule or having  to navigate  to 
another  page.
Add Journal  
Line ItemsYou can specify  exactly  where  to insert  a new line item in a journal.  Insert  
a journal  line item by selecting  an existing  line item then clicking  the Add 
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 5New inBrowserUX 8.2
Feature Description
Line Item button.  This adds  a new line item directly  below  the selected  
one.  Prior  to this enhancement,  all new journal  line items  were  placed  at 
the top of the journal  by default.  If you do not select  a location  for a new 
line item,  it will be added  to the top of the journal.
Rename  
JournalsYou can rename  journal  entries  in Working  or Rejected  status.  In the 
DesktopApp,  renaming  a journal  requires  you to launch  a Rename  
Journal  dialog.  In BUX,  the journal  name  property  is editable,  and 
changes  are saved  as part of the standard  Save  action.
Filter  Journals  
By EntityYou can filter journal  entries  on the entity  name  using  the Filter  button  in 
the Journals  tool bar.  You can use this filter in combination  with grid 
column  filters.  Filtering  helps  auditors,  accountants,  and other  
stakeholders,  quickly  identify  specific  transactions  and reduces  the time 
spent  on searching  for information,  especially  when  investigating  entries.
Personalize  
Journal  Line 
Item Dimension  
Member  
DescriptionsYou can hide or show  member  descriptions  next to member  names  in 
journal  line items.  Preferences  are saved  in your local browser.
Enhanced  Error  
Display  for 
Journal  
ValidationWhen  validating  journals,  detected  validation  errors  are prominently  
displayed  in a Validation  Messages  pane.  This update  aligns  with the 
Desktop  App method  of validation  error  presentation,  ensuring  a 
consistent  and clean  user experience.
SQL Table  
Editor  Row 
Background  
ColorAdministrators  have  the option  to apply  a background  color  to all rows  or 
alternate  rows  of an SQL table  in SQL Table  Editor  grids.  This makes  it 
easier  to distinguish  between  rows  of data at a glance,  and can 
significantly  reduce  eye strain.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 6New inBrowserUX 8.2
Dashboard
Feature Description
Advanced  Charts Area,  Bar, Line,  Pie and Donut  Charts
Large  Data  Pivot  
GridSupports  existing  Large  Data  Pivot  Grid components  in Dashboards  
while  offering  extended  functionality.
Pivot  Grid Supports  existing  Pivot  Grid components  in Dashboards  while  
offering  extended  functionality.
Date  Selector Provides  a configurable  calendar  for Dashboards  that enables  users  
to select  a date
SQL Table  Editor  - 
Filter  RowOptional  configuration  that allows  users  to filter in a specialized  Filter  
Row directly  beneath  column  headers.
SQL Table  Editor  & 
Grid View  - 
Keyboard  
FunctionalityOptional  configuration  that allows  users  to filter in a specialized  Filter  
Row directly  beneath  column  headers.  Users  have  access  to 
directional  keys as well as Enter  and Tab. 
Functional  Capabilities
Cancel  Long- Running  Tasks If a Cube  View  takes  longer  than 10 
seconds  to render,  users  will be 
prompted  to choose  to cancel  the task 
or continue  processing.  Users  can 
cancel  this task from the Data  Explorer  
page  or Task  Activity  panel.  The Task  
Activity  panel  also now includes  filters  
to display  long- running  tasks  and was 
updated  to ensure  it provides  proper  
task statuses  upon  cancellation  and 
logging  detail  for Cube  Views.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 7New inBrowserUX 8.2
BrowserUX  Implementation
This section  will guide  you through  the prerequisites  for BrowserUX  implementation  and the steps  
for setup  and configuration.
Prerequisites  for BrowserUX  Implementation
Customers  must  have  OneStream  Platform  version  8.0 or later installed  in their environments.  For 
more  information  on the installation  process,  see the  Installation  Guide .
For information  on prerequisites  for self-hosted  environments,  refer to the Legacy  Authentication  
section  in the Upgrade  Guide  for BrowserUX  guide.
System  Requirements
Supported  operating  systems:
 lMicrosoft  Windows  10 and 11
 lmacOS
 liOS
 lAndroid
NOTE:  MacOS,  iOS, and Android  OS version  compatibility  are being  evaluated  
during  the Private  Preview  program.
Supported  browsers:
 lMicrosoft  Edge
 lGoogle  Chrome
 lApple  Safari
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 8BrowserUX Implementation
Setup  and Configuration
The setup  and configuration  of OneStream  BrowserUX  may vary based  on how your 
environments  are hosted.  Follow  the instructions  below  that apply  to your environment  setup.
The BrowserUX  URL structure  uses  a company  domain.  For example  
https://cloudsitename.onestreamcloud.com/.  This URL can run on Chrome,  Edge,  and Safari  
browsers.
NOTE:  This URL is different  from the ClickOnce  URL,  which  allows  users  to run an 
instance  of the OneStream  Windows  Client  remotely  from an application  server.  
ClickOnce  URLs  can only run in an Edge browser.
Authentication
For OneStream  hosted  environments,  OneStream  IdentityServer  (OIS)  technology  enables  
BrowserUX  users  to authenticate  through  a browser  and enables  administrators  to set up 
BrowserUX  environments  to use native  IDs or an identity  provider  (IdP).  For more  information  on 
authentication  using  OIS, see the Identity  and Access  Management  Guide.  
For self-hosted  environments,  users  can authenticate  into BrowserUX  using  their existing  
authentication  method.  Additional  instructions  for self-hosted  authentication  can be found  in the 
Installation  Guide  and BrowserUX  Upgrade  Guide .
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 9Setup andConfiguration
Functional  Capabilities  of 
BrowserUX
Learn  how to navigate  OneStream  BrowserUX.  This section  explores  general  features  and 
highlights  notable  differences  between  BrowserUX  and Windows  Application.
General  User  Experience
Log in to BrowserUX
BrowserUX  is accessed  through  a web browser  instead  of using  a Windows  shortcut  or ClickOnce  
to open  a local instance  of OneStream . You can use bookmarked  URLs  to navigate  to 
BrowserUX.  Once  successfully  authenticated,  you can select  an application  from the drop- down  
menu  and click the LOG IN  button  to access  OneStream .
BrowserUX  is accessed  through  a custom  URL.  For example,  
https://cloudsitename.onestreamcloud.com/.  To start the authentication  process,  input  a 
Username  and select  Next.  Once  authenticated,  BrowserUX  will display  a OneStream  Home  
Page  or, if multiple  Applications  are available,  an Application  Selector.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 10Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
Log out of BrowserUX
 1. In the User  Menu , select  Log Out, or
 2. On the Application  Selection  page,  click the LOG OUT  button,  or
Logging  off of BrowserUX  will not log off other  open  OneStream  instances,  such  as the Windows  
Client  or Excel  Add- In. If using  single  sign- on, the user will not be logged  out of your single- sign on 
session.
Change  Applications
To change  applications,  select  Change  Applications  from the User  Menu . The Application  
Selector  will be displayed  with available  applications.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 11Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
Header
BrowserUX  has a header  and a OnePlace  panel  that persist  throughout  the user experience.  
Similar  to the Windows  Application,  the header  has a Home  button  embedded  in the OneStream  
logo and displays  the Application  Name.  Otherheader  functionalityhas  been  moved  to two menus  
in the top right corner  of the screen.
 l
 Gear  Icon – Application  Name,  Global  POV,  Version  Number,  Help Documentation,  
Task  Activity,  File Explorer
 l
 User  Icon – User’s  Name,  Change  Application,  Set/Clear  Home  Page,  Log Out
The OnePlace  Panel  can be fully collapsed,  opened  to display  Navigation  controls,  or expanded  
as an overlay  when  working  with any of the menu  areas.
NOTE:  The OnePlace  panel  may be fully hidden  for certain  users  using  security  
settings.
OnePlace  Panel
Hide  OnePlace  Panel
The OnePlacePane  security  role can be used  to hide the Navigation  panel  in BrowserUX.  This 
configuration  has been  added  under  Security  Roles  to enable  or disable  end user access  to the 
OnePlace  navigation  panel.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 12Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
Navigate  OnePlace  Panel  Sections
In the expanded  OnePlace  panel,  there  is a drop- down  menu  at the top of each  area to navigate  
between  them.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 13Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
File Explorer
File Explorer  is used  to manage  all OneStream  files and saved  POVs.  All file actions  are available  
in the toolbar,  including  create,  edit, delete,  upload,  download,  and apply  POV.  
 
Grids
While  the BrowserUX  grids  offer the same  functionality  as the Windows  Client,  some  differences  
were  added  to improve  the user experience.  Many  of the grids  have  virtual  scrolling  instead  of 
paging  to handle  large  datasets.  In addition  to the Sorting,  Filtering,  and Column  controls  found  in 
the Windows  Client,  BrowserUX  has added  a column  Lock  feature,  which  allows  users  to lock in 
place  any column  and the columns  to its left, while  being  able to scroll  the remaining  columns  
horizontally.  In the header,  BrowserUX  has added  an AutoFit  button,  which  will automatically  fit all 
the column  widths.  Many  of the grids  will also have  a context  menu  button  
  in the left corner  
of the grid header  with additional  functionality.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 14Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
Anchored  Dialogs
Many  of the dialog  boxes  in BrowserUX  display  in a slide- out panel  anchored  to the right side of 
the page  instead  of the floating  dialogs  used  in the Windows  Client.  This paradigm  offers  
improved  visibility  and provides  consistency  for users  accessing  BrowserUX  from various  
devices.  Slide- out panels  can be expanded  or constricted  to suit user preference  by dragging  the 
left edge  horizontally  across  the page.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 15Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
This anchored  dialog  box has been  extended  to dashboards  that appear  in dialog  boxes.  There  is 
a larger  default  width  compared  to the Windows  Client,  but the width  can be altered  with the dialog  
box display  format  configurations.  Since  these  dialog  boxes  are always  the full height  of the 
screen,  the height  configuration  for dashboards  in dialog  boxes  is ignored  in BrowserUX.
Cancel  Long- Running  Tasks
The ability  to cancel  long- running  tasks  in OneStream  provides  users  and administrators  with an 
enhanced  level of control  over a variety  of OneStream  processes,  such  as loading  and exporting  
large  cube  views,  uploading  files, running  data management  jobs,  and more.  A new dialog  has 
been  implemented  to support  this functionality  and a button  has been  added  to the Task  Activity  
grid to enable  users  to open  the Task  Progress  dialog  and cancel  tasks.  Filters  have  also been  
added  to the Task  Activity  panel  to limit data to running  tasks  and to allow  administrators  to see 
task data for all users.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 16Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 17Functional Capabilities ofBrowserUX
Workflow
Workflow  in BrowserUX  delivers  the same  functionality  and customizations  offered  in the 
Windows  Application  with a few notable  exceptions  mentioned  below.  Some  tactical  user 
experience  improvements  have  been  made,  while  primarily  focusing  on delivering  the 
functionality  of the workflow  steps.
Navigation
Similar  to the Windows  Application,  Workflows  are accessed  through  the OnePlace  panel.  Users  
are able to modify  the Workflow  POV  by selecting  the edit icon next to each  dimension  and 
navigate  between  Workflow  Units  under  Time  Periods.  It is important  to note a few differences  
between  BrowserUX  and the Windows  Application:
 lThe Workflow  POV  Edit menu  is displayed  as an overlay  menu,  instead  of a pop-up dialog.  
Users  are able to update  Workflow,  Scenario,  and Year  using  the available  tabs.  A Save  
button  at the top of the section  finalizes  any changes.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 18Workflow
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 19Workflow
 lA new dropdown  in the Workflow  page  title bar allows  users  to quickly  toggle  between  
Workflow  Steps  in a Time  Period.
 lThe new Focus  View  function  allows  users  to view only the selected  time period.  In the 
example  below,  a user chose  to view only June  to simplify  navigation.  To return  to the full 
list, simply  disable  the Focus  View  toggle.
Status  Icons  have  been  updated,  and in some  cases,  combined  to make  a more  intuitive  user 
experience.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 20Workflow
Supported  Workflow  Functionality
Workflow  Steps
 lBlend  lImport
 lCentral  Form  Input  lJournal  Input
 lCentral  Import  lLoad
 lCentral  Journal  Input  lPre-Process
 lCertify  lProcess
 lConfirm  lValidate
 lDirect  lWorkspace
 lForm  
General  Workflow  Functionality
 lDrill Back  lTime  Range  Periods
 lDrill Down  lView  Transformation  Rules
 lAnalysis  Area  lView  Processing  Log
 lApplication  Configurations  lView  Source  Document
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 21Workflow
 lIntercompany  Matching  lTime  Period  Actions
 lMulti- Period  Processing  lDependent  Actions
Notable  Differences  from  Windows  
Application
 lWorkflow  Page  Styling  – Workflow  Title,  Workflow  Steps,  Grids,  Status  Area,  and Analysis  
Area.
 lStatus  Icons  – Consistent  with the OnePlace  panel,  the Workflow  status  icons  have  been  
simplified  in BrowserUX to  make  a more  intuitive  user experience.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 22Workflow
 lWorkflow  Progress  Buttons  – Now displayed  on the right side of the screen,  the progress  
buttons  have  been  updated  with new icons  and borders  to improve  visibility.
Drag  and Drop  File Import  – Files  can be imported  by selecting  from your device  or using  a 
new drag & drop feature.
 lContext  Menus  for Grids  – All Workflow  Grid functions  have  been  moved  from right- click 
menus  to a context  menu  in the header  of each  grid.
 lRename  Journal  – You can rename  journals  by editing  the Journal  Name  property  in the 
journal  header,  instead  of a rename  button  and dialog.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 23Workflow
Notable  Workflow  Functionality  Gaps
Workflow  Steps
 lManage  Workflow
General  Workflow  Functionality
 lEdit Transformation  Rules
 lSpreadsheet  Form  Input
Navigating  Workflow  Step  Gaps
Helpful  tips have  been  added  to BrowserUX to  identify  unsupported  workflow  steps  for both 
dashboard  designers  and end users.  In BrowserUX,  Coming  Soon  icons  indicate  a workflow  step 
is not currently  supported.
Even  if all steps  are supported  in each  workflow,  thorough  testing  is still recommended  to ensure  
processes  are working  as expected  before  production  use.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 24Workflow
Cube  Views
BrowserUX  cube  views  are flexible  reporting  artifacts  that enable  cube  data to be presented  and 
customized  in numerous  ways  using  various  configurations  and formatting  properties,  member  
formulas,  and calculations.
Nearly  all cube  view features  provided  in the Windows  Client  are available  to users  in BrowserUX.  
For cube  views  that utilize  features  or functionality  that has not been  delivered,  or in the case  that 
variations  arise  due to technical  differences  inherent  in web applications,  there  may be 
configuration  changes  or other  workarounds  that can be leveraged  until subsequent  releases  
close  the functional  gaps.
Supported  Cube  View  Functionality
Presentation
 lCube  View  and Export  Format  Configuration  Properties
 lCell Data  Types
 lCell Status  Background  Colors
 lRow and Column  Sharing
 lNested  and Expandable  Column  and Row Headers
Toolbar  Functions
 lContext  Menu  Dropdown
 lSave  and Revert  Changes
 lData  Refresh
 lParameter  Selection
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 25Cube Views
Cube  View  and Cell- Level  Context  Menu  Functions
 lCalculate,  Translate,  Consolidate
 lData  Attachments
 lSpreading
 lCell Detail
 lCell POV  Information
 lData  Unit Statistics
 lCell Status
 lDrill Down
 lRow Suppression
 lExport
 lCube  View  and Dashboard  Navigation  Links
Cube  View  Navigation
The General  Visibility  setting  in Cube  View  profiles  will be applicable  for cube  views  in BrowserUX  
and the Windows  Client  (OnePlace,  Workflow,  and Dashboards).  The Client/Device  Visibility  
setting  in Dashboard  profiles  will also affect  access  to embedded  cube  views  or data explorer  
components  in Dashboards.  See Dashboards .
Cube  View  Drill Down
The Drill Down  interface  has been  moved  from a page  tab into a slide- out panel  in BrowserUX.  
You can drill down  into cube  data from a cell intersection  by right- clicking  the cell and selecting  
Drill Down  from the cube  view context  menu.  The cube  view drill down  interface  opens  in a slide-
out panel,  which  can be resized  horizontally.
Currently,  only the Open  in Panel  option  is supported.  The Open  in New Tab option  will be 
considered  in a future  release.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 26Cube Views
A context  menu  was also added  to the toolbar  on the Drill Down  page  to consolidate  some  
functionality  in a way that better  supports  different  screen  sizes  and devices.
A hidden  context  menu  for drill down  has been  implemented  to consolidate  key drill down  
functions,  such  as Load  Results  for Imported  Cell and Audit  History  for Forms  or Adjustment  
Cells.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 27Cube Views
User  Experience  Differentiators
In BrowserUX,  row and column  virtualization  has been  implemented  to efficiently  retrieve  and 
render  large  datasets  for cube  views.  Row and column  virtualization  retrieves  data to display  as 
the user scrolls  vertically  or horizontally  through  cube  view pages,  improving  performance  of 
client- side data rendering  and enabling  a more  seamless  data review  process.  Row virtualization  
occurs  in defined  Cube  View  page  boundaries.
Notable  Functional  Gaps
 lAllocation  
 lAutofit  
NOTE:  BrowserUX  uses  column  widths  specified  at design  time or a default  
width  of 160 pixels  when  no specific  width  is defined  for a column,  or when  an 
asterisk  or "Auto"  is used  to set the width.  OneStream  will continue  to pursue  
enhancements  that better  support  automatic  column  width  definitions.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 28Cube Views
Dashboards
BrowserUX dashboards  are expanding  functional  coverage  with the goal of offering  equivalent  
use of layouts  and components  available  in the Windows  Client.  Currently,  the most  commonly  
used  features  are available  in BrowserUX.  For dashboards  that contain  elements  that have  not 
been  delivered  or potential  gaps  that can arise  out of unique  design  techniques,  there  are typically  
substitutions,  configuration  changes,  or workarounds  that can be implemented  until subsequent  
releases  close  the functional  gap.
While  BrowserUX  moves  toward  comprehensive  end user dashboard  functionality  and matching  
rendering  between  the Windows  Client  and BrowserUX,  the underlying  technologies  between  the 
clients  will likely  prevent  perfect  replication  of dashboards  in both clients.  Additionally,  since  the 
user interface  styling  is different  between  the clients,  dashboards  designed  for one client  may look 
out of place  when  rendered  in another.
If a preexisting  dashboard  contains  only supported  layouts  and components,  it can be enabled  for 
BrowserUX use  with a single  configuration.  However,  for an optimized  user experience  in 
BrowserUX  or on mobile  devices,  designers  may consider  modifying  the dashboard  or creating  
new client/device  specific  experiences.
Enabling  Dashboard  Access
To ensure  dashboards  are only rendered  within  the client  (Windows  Application  or BrowserUX)  or 
device  (PC, tablet,  or phone),  a new configuration  has been  added  to the Dashboard  Profile  called  
Client/Device  Visibility.  
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 29Dashboards
The Client/Device  Visibility  configuration  enables  dashboard  designers  to control  which  
dashboard  profiles,  and the dashboards  they contain,  can be accessed  and viewed  on one or 
more  clients  and devices.  Enabling  this configuration  will display  the dashboard  in the OnePlace  
Dashboard  list of the respective  client/device  selection.
Preexisting  and newly  created  dashboards  will be set to the Windows  Client  only by default.  
Dashboards  are not initially  visible  in BrowserUX.
Supported  Dashboard  Functionality
Dashboard  Layouts
 lGrid  lHorizontal  Stack  Panel
 lUniform  lVertical  Stack  Panel
 lTabs  
Dashboard  Components
 lAdvanced  Charts  lImage
 lBI Viewer  lLabel
 lBook  Viewer  lLarge  Data  Pivot  Grid
 lButton  lList Box
 lCheck  Box  lLogo
 lCombo  Box  lPivot  Grid
 lCube  View  lRadio  Button  Group
 lData  Explorer  lReport
 lData  Explorer  Report  lSupplied  Parameter
 lDate  Selector  lText Box
 lEmbedded  Dashboard  lText Viewer
 lFile Viewer  lTree View
 lGantt  View  lSQL Table  Editor
 lGrid View  
General  Dashboard  Functionality
 lActions
 lExtensible  Documents
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 30Dashboards
 lUser  Supplied  Parameters
Notable  Differences  from  Windows  
Application
Dashboard  Components
BI Viewer
You may observe  style differences,  like muted  borders  and headers,  or alternative  style 
visualizations.
Embedded  Dashboards
New client/device  specific  dashboards  configurations  allow  a single  root dashboard  to render  
different  embedded  dashboards  depending  on the client  or device  type.  (More  details  on the use 
of this configuration  are described  within  the Multi- Client/Device  Dashboard  Design  Approaches  
below)
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 31Dashboards
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 32Dashboards
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 33Dashboards
Grid View
Grid options  are now listed  in a context  menu.
SQL Table  Editor
Additional  options  are now listed  in a context  menu.  Edited  cells have  minor  style updates.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 34Dashboards
Grid Keyboard  Functionality  
BrowserUX  includes  basic  keyboard  shortcuts  including  navigation  with arrow  keys and 
advancing  through  cells using  either  Enter  or Tab.
Large  Data  Pivot  Grid & Pivot  Grid
Pivot  Grids  in Browser  UX come  with a host of new features  including  Saved  Reports,  Charts,  
Calculated  Fields,  and Keyboard  Navigation.  Both Pivot  Grid and Large  Data  Pivot  Grid benefit  
from updated  data processing  that ensures  all data is available  for aggregation.
Notable  Differences  in Pivot  Grids
Field  Controls  are displayed  in a floating  dialog  and launch  using  the Show  Fieldlist  button  in the 
upper  right corner  of the pivot  grid.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 35Dashboards
A count  of total rows  in the dataset  is displayed  on the top right of the pivot  grid.
NOTE:  This count  will not change  when  filtering  data,  it will always  display  the total 
count  of rows.
Button Action
Create  new report
Save  a report
Save  as current  report
Rename  a current  report
Delete  a current  report
Default  Report  dropdown  
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 36Dashboards
Show  table
Chart  types
Export
Subtotals
Grand  totals
Formatting
New Features  in Pivot  Grids
Saved  Reports  – Easily  reference  past grid configurations  by saving  reports.  The default  report  
will return  the Pivot  Grid to its initial  configuration,  while  Create,  Save,  Save  As, and Rename  
buttons  manage  custom  reports.  Find reporting  functions  in the Browser  UX Pivot  Grid Toolbar.
Charts  – This new feature  lets users  easily  visualize  the data from a customized  pivot  grid into a 
chart.  Simply  select  the Chart  icon in the toolbar,  then configure  the available  options.  Charts  can 
be saved  as reports  for future  reference  using  the Saved  Reports  feature.  See Appendix  B for a 
full list of available  chart  types.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 37Dashboards
 lOptions:  Show  Legend,  Multiple  Axis
 lExplore  larger  charts  using  the zoom  feature.  Available  using  scroll  control  on mouse,  the 
zoom  toolbar  on the chart,  or by using  keyboard  shortcuts.
 lVisualize  the expansion  and collapse  of the pivot  grid data from the chart  using  right mouse  
click menu.
 lKeyboard  Functionality  - A wide array  of functions  allow  users  to interact  with Pivot  Grids  
using  keyboard  shortcuts.  See Appendix  B for a full list of interactions.
 lCalculated  Fields  - The calculated  field feature  allows  users  to create  custom  fields  which  
are not present  in the actual  data.  Users  can create  these  fields  using  basic  mathematical  
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 38Dashboards
expressions  collaborating  with existing  fields.  See Appendix  A for syntax.
Advanced  Charts
There  are some  charts  and configuration  properties  that are not currently  supported.  See 
Appendix  B for a detailed  breakdown.
Notable  Dashboard  Functionality  Gaps
Dashboard  Layouts
 lCanvas
 lDock
 lWrap
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 39Dashboards
Dashboard  Components
 lBasic  Charts  lSpreadsheet
 lFilter  lState  Indicator
 lMap  lText Editor
 lPassword  Box  lWeb Content
 lSankey  Diagram  lMember  Tree
Navigating  Dashboard  Gaps
Helpful  tips have  been  added  to both the Windows  Client  and BrowserUX  to assist  dashboard  
designers  and end users  in identifying  dashboard  layouts  and components  that are not yet 
supported  in BrowserUX.
In the Windows  Client,  labels  for Windows  App Only have  been  added  to both the Dashboard  
Properties  Layout  Type  and Dashboard  Component  selection  lists.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 40Dashboards
In BrowserUX,  a placeholder  image  indicates  if the dashboard  layout  or component  is not 
currently  supported.  A hover  tooltip  specifies  the layout  or component  that is not rendering.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 41Dashboards
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 42Dashboards
Even  if all dashboard  layouts  and components  are supported,  we still recommend  conducting  a 
full regression  test of any dashboard  that is being  transferred  from the Windows  Client  to 
BrowserUX to  ensure  functional  parity  before  production  use.
BrowserUX Dashboard  Design  Process
When  building  a dashboard  for BrowserUX use,  designers  should  open  both their Windows  and 
BrowserUX clients  simultaneously.  Using  the Windows  Client,  designers  can update  and save  
dashboard  configurations.  To view changes  reflected  in BrowserUX,  simply  refresh  the browser.
When  building  a dashboard  for use on a tablet  or phone,  designers  can follow  the same  process,  
using  either  a physical  device  or mobile  device  emulator  in a browser.  Designers  should  make  
sure they log into their BrowserUX environment  with the emulator  properly  sized  to ensure  
BrowserUX reacts  to the device  it is emulating.
As with the Windows  Client,  using  dashboard  design  best practices  can significantly  improve  the 
performance  of a dashboard.  BrowserUX may  have  performance  sensitivities  that differ  from the 
Windows  Client.
Multi- client/Device  Dashboard  Design  Approaches
When  designing  a dashboard  that will be used  across  multiple  clients  or devices,  dashboard  
designers  can use three  different  approaches  to find the right balance  of upfront  effort,  end-user 
optimization,  and maintenance  effort  that best suits their needs.
Approach  1: Unified  Multi- client/Device  Dashboards
This approach  uses  a single  non-adaptive  dashboard.  The designer  will most  likely  have  to make  
compromises  to make  it usable  for each  client/device  type.  These  compromises  typically  result  in 
a simplified  dashboard  with efficient  maintenance.  This type of dashboard  needs  to have  the 
proper  combination  Client/Device  Visibility  configurations  to be accessible  from the OnePlace  
Dashboard  across  clients  and devices.  It can be more  difficult  for multi- device  use due to varying  
space  for dashboard  components,  but it is an effective  way to access  dashboards  in 
BrowserUX initially.  Designers  can rely on this approach  to update  existing  Windows  Client  
dashboards  for use in BrowserUX.  For more  complex  scenarios,  designers  should  consider  
building  client/device  specific  dashboards  or adaptive  dashboards.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 43Dashboards
Approach  2: Client/Device  Specific  Dashboards
This approach  uses  multiple  non-adaptive  dashboards.  Designers  create  separate  dashboards  
that render  equivalent  information  and functionalities  but have  different  designs  that are optimized  
for specific  client  and device  types.  These  dashboards  need  to be added  to separate  dashboard  
profiles.  Each  of the dashboard  profiles  have  different  Client/Device  Visibility  configurations,  
which  limits  their visibility  in the OnePlace  Dashboard  list to only the appropriate  client  or device  
they were  designed  for. This approach  offers  an optimized  user experience  and low design  
complexity,  but it has a high maintenance  effort.
Approach  3: Client/Device  Adaptive  Dashboards
This approach  uses  a single  adaptive  dashboard.  Designers  need  an initial  understanding  of how 
their dashboard  should  adapt  to each  client  or device  type intended  for use. The designer  creates  
Embedded  Dashboards  with configurations  that link to client/device  specific  dashboards.  The 
Embedded  Dashboards  can be placed  at any level within  nested  dashboards.  Allowing  designers  
to easily  customize  components  shared  across  multiple  devices  or create  unique  experiences  per 
device  type.  This approach  offers  a highly  optimized  user experience  and lower  maintenance  
effort,  but it has high design  complexity.
Current  dashboards  that have  been  designed  previously  for the OneStream  Windows  Client  may 
need  to be redesigned  for an optimized  user experience  in BrowserUX or  alternative  device  types.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 44Dashboards
Documents
The Documents  area in BrowserUX  has a similar  navigation  pattern  with the Windows  Client.  
However,  the Browser  Client  downloads  files instead  of opening  them  in their native  application.  A 
context  menu  has been  added  to the top of the Documents  area,  which  contains  a download  
button  for selected  documents.  This Context  Menu  also contains  an Open  File Explorer  button  
and View  File Details  button.  The File Details  can also be viewed  by double  clicking  onto the file 
itself.  When  a folder  is selected  the Context  Menu  only has the Open  File Explorer  button  and the 
View  Folder  Details  button.
POV  can be applied  through  the File Explorer  only.
Additionally,  by double- clicking  the file, folder  or selecting  View  File Details  from the context  
menu,  you can see the File Details  or Folder  Details.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 45Documents
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 46Documents
POV
In BrowserUX,  POV  is in the OnePlace  panel.  To view and modify  the current  Cube  POV,  select  
the POV  menu  from the OnePlace  panel.  Similar  to Workflow  POV,  the Cube  POV  Edit menu  is 
displayed  as an overlay  menu,  instead  of a pop-up dialog.  It's also important  to note that 
information  from the Windows  Application  POV  menu  is displayed  in a few different  areas  in 
BrowserUX:
 lGlobal  POV : Select  the gear icon in the header  to view current  Global  POV  settings.
 lWorkflow  POV:  Select  Workflow  in the OnePlace  panel  to view and modify  the current  
Workflow  POV.
Additional  Features
Modify  a POV
To modify  a POV,  click the pencil  icon next to each  field,  make  your modification,  and click Save.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 47POV
Save  a POV
To save  a POV,  select  Save  POV  from the POV  context  menu.  File Explorer  will open  with an 
option  to name  and save  the current  POV  settings.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 48POV
Set a Saved  POV
Saved  POVs  are stored  in File Explorer.  To set a saved  POV,  use the Apply  POV  button  in the 
File Explorer  toolbar.  POV  can be applied  through  the File Explorer  only.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 49POV
Third- Party  Component  
Technology
OneStream  is created  using  both OneStream's  own tools  and third- party  tools  in the authoring,  
installation,  and running  of OneStream's  supported  products.  OneStream  BrowserUX  third-  party  
developer  components  include  Syncfusion.  OneStream  customers  are not required  to purchase  
these  developer  tools.
The copyright  notice  with respect  to these  third parties  is as follows:
 lSyncfusion.  (c) 2001- 2023  Copyright  Syncfusion  Inc. All rights  reserved.
For a comprehensive  list of all third- party  component  tools  throughout  the OneStream  Windows  
Client  application,  see Third- Party  Component  Technology .
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 50Third- Party Component Technology
Appendix  A: Pivot  Grids
Calculated  Fields  Syntax
Add a Calculated  Field  to Pivot  Grids  in BrowserUX  by selecting  Show  Field  List from the toolbar,  
then Calculated  Field.  The following  syntax  gives  users  several  options  for customizing  fields.
Operator Name Syntax
+ addition X + Y
- subtraction X - Y
* multiplication X * Y
/ division X / Y
^ power X^2
< Less  than X < Y
<= less than or equal X <= Y
> greater  than X > Y
>= greater  than or equal X >= Y
== equal X == Y
!= not equal X != Y
| OR X | Y
& AND X & Y
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 51Appendix A:Pivot Grids
? conditional condition  ? 
then :  else
isNaN function  that checks  if the value  is not a number isNaN (value)
!isNaN function  that checks  if the value  is a number isNaN (value)
abs function  that returns  the absolute  value  of a number abs(number)
min function  that returns  the minimum  value min
(number1,  
number2)
max function  that returns  the maximum  value max
(number1,  
number2)
Keyboard Navigation  in Pivot  Grids
Focus
Alt + J Focuses  the Pivot  Table  component.
Pivot Table
Tab Moves  the cell focus  right side.  If no cells are focused,  it moves  to the next 
active  element  in the browser  page.
Shift + Tab Moves  the cell focus  left side.  If no cells are focused,  it moves  to the previous  
active  element  in the browser  page.
Down  
arrowMoves  the cell focus  downwards.
Up arrow Moves  the cell focus  upwards.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 52Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Left arrow Moves  the cell focus  left side.
Right  
arrowMoves  the cell focus  right side.
Home Goes  to the first cell in the current  row.
End Goes  to the last cell in the current  row.
Ctrl + 
HomeGoes  to the first cell in the table.
Ctrl + End Goes  to the last cell in the table.
Enter If the current  cell is an expand/collapse  cell, it performs  expand/collapse  
operation  (drill operation).  If the current  row/column  header  is in value  sort 
state,  it performs  value  sorting.
Shift + 
EnterIf value  sorting  is enabled  in the pivot  table  and the current  cell is a header  with 
respect  to its value  axis, it performs  value  sorting  to either  ascending  or 
descending  order.
Grouping  Bar
Tab Moves  to the next active  element  (field’s  button)  in the grouping  bar. If no 
active  elements  present,  it moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  
page.
Shift + Tab Moves  to the previous  active  element  (field’s  button)  in the grouping  bar. If no 
active  elements  present,  it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the 
browser  page.
Shift + F If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a filter icon,  the filter 
dialog  will be opened  to perform  filtering.
Shift + S If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a sort icon,  the 
sorting  will be performed  to the selected  field.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 53Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Shift + E If the current  active  element  is a calculated  field’s  button  and if it has an edit 
icon,  the calculated  field dialog  will be opened  to perform  editing  the selected  
calculated  field.
Enter Performs  the selection  operation  of the current  active  element.  If the current  
active  element  is a field’s  button  and it has a dropdown  icon,  the aggregation  
menu  will open  to perform  calculations  using  aggregation  options  to the 
selected  value  field.
Delete If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button,  the selected  field will be 
removed  from the current  report.
Down  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a dropdown  list, the next item will be selected.
Up arrow If the current  active  element  is a dropdown  list, the previous  item will be 
selected.
Home If the current  active  element  is a dropdown  list, the first item will be selected.
End If the current  active  element  is a dropdown  list, the last item will be selected.
Alt + Down If the current  active  element  is a dropdown  list, the popup  will be opened.
Alt + Down If the current  active  element  is a dropdown  list, the popup  will be closed.
Esc or 
EscapeCloses  the dropdown  list.
Field  List
Ctrl + Shift 
+ FIf the popup  field list is enabled  in either  the pivot  table  or the pivot  chart,  the 
field list dialog  will be opened.
Tab Moves  to the next active  element  in the field list. If no active  elements  present,  
it moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  page.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 54Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Shift + Tab Moves  to the previous  active  element  in the field list. If no active  elements  
present,  it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the browser  page.
Shift + F If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a filter icon,  the filter 
dialog  will be opened  to perform  filtering.
Shift + S If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a sort icon,  the 
sorting  will be performed  to the selected  field.
Shift + E If the current  active  element  is a calculated  field’s  button  and if it has an edit 
icon,  the calculated  field dialog  will be opened  to perform  editing  the selected  
calculated  field.
Enter Performs  the selection  operation  of the current  active  element.  If the current  
active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a dropdown  icon,  the aggregation  
menu  will be opened  to perform  calculations  using  aggregation  options  to the 
selected  value  field.
Delete If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button,  the selected  field will be 
removed  from the current  report.
Down  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it moves  to the next node.
Up arrow If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it moves  to the previous  node.
Left arrow If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it collapses  the current  node.
Right  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it expands  the current  node.
Home If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it goes  to the first node.
End If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it goes  to the last node.
Space If the current  active  element  is a tree node  or a checkbox  element,  it will be 
either  checked  or unchecked.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 55Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Esc or 
EscapeCloses  the popup  field list dialog.
Toolbar
Tab Moves  to the next active  option  in the toolbar.  If no active  elements  present,  it 
moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  page.
Shift + Tab Moves  to the previous  active  option  in the toolbar.  If no active  elements  
present,  it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the browser  page.
Enter Performs  the selection  operation  of the current  active  element.
Calculated  Field  
Shift + E If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has an edit icon in either  
the field list or grouping  bar UI, the calculated  field dialog  will be opened  to 
perform  editing  the selected  calculated  field.
Tab Moves  to the next active  element  in the calculated  field dialog.  If no active  
elements  present,  it moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  page.
Shift + Tab Moves  to the previous  active  element  in the calculated  field dialog.  If no active  
elements  present,  it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the browser  
page.
Enter Performs  the selection  operation  of the current  active  element.  If the current  
active  element  is a tree node,  it copies  the selected  field name/formula  to the 
formula  text area to perform  calculations.
Down  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it moves  to the next node.
Up arrow If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it moves  to the previous  node.
Left arrow If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it collapses  the current  node.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 56Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Right  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it expands  the current  node.  If the 
current  active  element  is a tree node  and has a menu  icon,  the aggregation  
menu  will be opened  to select  appropriate  aggregation  type to the selected  
field.
Home If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it goes  to the first node.
End If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it goes  to the last node.
Esc or 
EscapeCloses  the filter dialog.
Drill Through
Tab Moves  to the next active  element  in the drill-through  dialog.  If the current  
active  element  is a Grid cell, it moves  the cell focus  to right side.  If no active  
elements  present,  then it moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  
page.
Shift + Tab Moves  to the previous  active  element  in the drill-through  dialog.  If the current  
active  element  is a Grid cell, it moves  the cell focus  to left side,  If no active  
elements  present,  then it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the browser  
page.
Down  
arrowMoves  the row/cell  focus  downwards.
Up arrow Moves  the row/cell  focus  upwards.
Left arrow Moves  the cell focus  left side.
Right  
arrowMoves  the cell focus  left side.
Home Goes  to the first cell in the current  row.
End Goes  to the last cell in the current  row.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 57Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Ctrl + 
HomeGoes  to the first cell in the table.
Ctrl + End Goes  to the first cell in the table.
Enter Performs  the selection  operation  of the current  active  element.
Esc or 
EscapeIf the cell is in selected  state,  it deselects  all rows/cells.  If the row/cell  is in edit 
state,  it cancels  the current  entries  in the row/cell.  If the current  active  element  
is not a row/cell,  it closes  the drill-through  dialog.
F2 If the cell is in selected  state,  it deselects  all rows/cells.  If the row/cell  is in edit 
state,  it cancels  the current  entries  in the row/cell.  If the current  active  element  
is not a row/cell,  it closes  the drill-through  dialog.
Insert Adds  a new row/cell  in the data grid.
Delete Removes  the selected  row in the data grid.
Filter  Dialog
Shift + F If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a filter icon in either  
the field list or grouping  bar UI, the filter dialog  will be opened  to perform  
filtering.
Tab If the current  active  element  is a field’s  button  and if it has a filter icon in either  
the field list or grouping  bar UI, the filter dialog  will be opened  to perform  
filtering.
Shift + Tab Moves  to the next active  element  in the filter dialog.  If no active  elements  
present,  it moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  page.
Enter Moves  to the previous  active  element  in the filter dialog.  If no active  elements  
present,  it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the browser  page.
Down  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it moves  to the next node.
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 58Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Up arrow If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it moves  to the previous  node.
Left arrow If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it collapses  the current  node.  If the 
current  active  element  is a tab, it moves  focus  to the previous  tab element.
Right  
arrowIf the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it expands  the current  node.  If the 
current  active  element  is a tab, it moves  focus  to the next tab element.
Home If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it goes  to the first node.
End If the current  active  element  is a tree node,  it goes  to the last node.
Space If the current  active  element  is a tree node  or a checkbox  element,  it will be 
either  checked  or unchecked.
Esc or 
EscapeCloses  the filter dialog.
Alt + Down If the current  active  element  is a DropDownList  or DatePicker  or 
DateTimePicker,  the popup  will be opened.
Alt + Up If the current  active  element  is a DropDownList  or DatePicker  or 
DateTimePicker,  the popup  will be closed.
Chart  Types  in Pivot  Grids
These  are the available  chart  types  within  Pivot  Grids.
Column,  Stacked  Column,  100%  Stacked  Column Bubble
Bar, Stacked  Bar, 100%  Stacked  Bar Pareto
Line,  Stacked  Line,  Step Line,  100%  Stacked  Line Radar
Area,  Stacked  Area,  Step Area,  100%  Stacked  Area Pie
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 59Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Scatter Doughnut
Polar Funnel
Spline Pyramid
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 60Appendix A:Pivot Grids
Appendix  B: Advanced  Charts
The following  chart  types  are currently  supported  by the BrowserUX  Advanced  Charts  dashboard  
component.
XY2D Area,  Area  Stacked,  Area  Full Stacked,  Area  
Spline,  Area  Step,  Bar, Bar Stacked,  Bar Full 
Stacked,  Bar Side By Side Stacked,  Bar Side By 
Side Full Stacked,  Line,  Line Stacked,  Line Full 
Stacked,  Line Step
Simple2D Nested  Donut,  Pie And Donut
The following  chart  types  are not currently  supported  by the BrowserUX  Advanced  Charts  
dashboard  component.
XY2D Area  Range,  Bar Side By Side,  Bar Range  
Overlapped,  Bar Range  Overlapped  Waterfall,  
Bar Range  Side By Side,  Bar Range  Side By 
Side Waterfall,  Bubble,  Candlestick,  Line 
Scatter,  Point,  Spline,  Stock,  Waterfall
Simple2D Funnel
Polar2D Polar  Area,  Polar  Line,  Polar  Point
Radar2D Radar  Area,  Radar  Line,  Radar  Point
Configuration  Properties
The following  chart  configuration  properties  are not currently  supported.
Chart Show  Toggle  Size Button,  Point  Label  Text 
Format,  Enable  Animations
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 61Appendix B:Advanced Charts
Crosshair Crosshair  Enabled,  Show  Crosshair  Lines,  
Show  Crosshair  Labels,  Crosshair  Label  Mode,  
Crosshair  Label  Text Format
Legend Show  Check  Boxes,  Show  Border
X-Axis,  Y-Axis,  Secondary  Y-Axis Text Format,  Use Automatic  Step,  Step,  
Interlaced,  Interlaced  Color,  Show  Minor  Grid 
Lines
Y-Axis,  Secondary  Y-Axis Scale  Break  Style  Type,  Maximum  Number  of 
Scale  Breaks
Series  Properties Model  Display  Type,  Marker  Size,  Bar Width,  
Pie Hole Radius  Percent
Waterfall  Series  Properties Start  Bar Color,  Total  Bar Color,  Rising  Bar 
Color,  Falling  Bar Color,  Total  Included  In 
Series,  Total  Value  Label,  Include  Subtotals,  
Subtotal  Indexes,  Subtotal  Labels,  Subtotal  Bar 
Color,  Label  Position
BrowserUX Early Access Programs Guide 62Appendix B:Advanced Charts