Modern  Browser  
Experience  Guide
9.2.0  Release

Copyright  © 2025  OneStream  Software  LLC.  All rights  reserved.
All trademarks,  logos,  and brand  names  used  on this website  are the property  of their respective  
owners.  This document  and its contents  are the exclusive  property  of OneStream  Software  LLC 
and are protected  under  international  intellectual  property  laws.  Any reproduction,  modification,  
distribution  or public  display  of this documentation,  in whole  or part, without  written  prior consent  
from OneStream  Software  LLC is strictly  prohibited.
Table  of Contents
About  This Guide 1
Modern  Browser  Experience  Overview 2
New Features  and Functionality  in Modern  Browser  Experience  
Version  9.2.0 3
Functional  Capabilities 3
Cube  Views 4
Access  the Modern  Browser  Experience 5
Authentication 5
Functional  Capabilities 6
Intuitive  User  Experience 6
Log In 6
Log Out 7
Change  Applications 8
Header 8
Modern Browser Experience Guide iTable ofContents
OnePlace  Panel 10
File Explorer 11
Grids 12
Anchored  Dialogs 13
Timeout 14
Smart  Links 15
Accessibility 16
Workflow 17
Navigation 17
Workflow  Breadcrumbs 20
Supported  Workflow  Functionality 21
Workflow  Steps 21
General  Workflow  Functionality 21
Notable  Differences  from Windows  Application 22
Notable  Workflow  Functionality  Gaps 24
Workflow  Steps 24
Modern Browser Experience Guide iiTable ofContents
General  Workflow  Functionality 24
Navigating  Workflow  Step Gaps 25
Cube  Views 26
Supported  Cube  View  Functionality 26
Presentation 26
Toolbar  Functions 27
Cube  View  and Cell-Level  Context  Menu  Functions 27
Cube  View  Navigation 28
Cube  View  Drill Down 28
Cube  View  Designer 29
User  Experience  Differentiators 32
Unsupported  Cube  View  Functionality 33
Accessibility 34
Dashboards 36
Enabling  Dashboard  Access 36
Notable  Differences  from Windows  Application 38
Modern Browser Experience Guide iiiTable ofContents
Dashboard  Components 38
BI Viewer 38
BI Viewer  Designer 39
Embedded  Dashboards 40
Text Box 43
Grid View 43
SQL Table  Editor 43
Grid Keyboard  Functionality 44
Large  Data  Pivot  Grid & Pivot  Grid 44
Advanced  Charts 46
Text Editor 47
Filter  Editor 47
Maps 47
Menu 47
Spreadsheet 48
Web Content 48
Modern Browser Experience Guide ivTable ofContents
Notable  Dashboard  Functionality  Gaps 49
Dashboard  Layouts 49
Dashboard  Components 49
Navigating  Dashboard  Gaps 49
Dashboard  Design  Process 52
Dashboard  Accessibility  Design  Approaches 52
Multi- client/Device  Dashboard  Design  Approaches 54
Approach  1: Unified  Multi- client/Device  Dashboards 54
Approach  2: Client/Device  Specific  Dashboards 55
Approach  3: Client/Device  Adaptive  Dashboards 55
Documents 56
POV 59
Additional  Features 59
Modify  a POV 59
Save  a POV 60
Apply  a Saved  POV 61
Modern Browser Experience Guide vTable ofContents
Appendix  A: Advanced  Charts 62
Configuration  Properties 63
Appendix  B: Spreadsheet  Features  and Functionality 64
Supported  Spreadsheet  Features  and Functionality 64
Unsupported  Spreadsheet  Features  and Functionality 66
Appendix  C: Supported  Number  Formats 68
Appendix  D: Smart  Link APIs 69
Create  Smart  Link 69
Retrieve  Smart  Link 71
Delete  Smart  Link 72
Modify  Smart  Link 73
Appendix  E: Component  Keyboard  Controls 75
Modern Browser Experience Guide viTable ofContents
About  This Guide
This guide  introduces  the Modern  Browser  Experience  and highlights  the end user benefits  and 
functional  differences  of using  OneStream's  web- accessible  interface.  This guide  is intended  to:
 lFamiliarize  OneStream  end users,  power  users,  administrators,  partners,  and consultants  
with the supported  functionality,  features,  and interfaces  in the Modern  Browser  
Experience.
 lProvide  the prerequisites  and directions  for implementing  the Modern  Browser  Experience  
in a customer  environment.
 lProvide  high- level information  describing  features,  capabilities,  general  usage  patterns,  
end-user flows,  and best practices  unique  to the Modern  Browser  Experience.
 lExplain  the functional,  technical,  and visual  differences  between  the Modern  Browser  
Experience  and the Windows  application.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 1About This Guide
Modern  Browser  Experience  
Overview
Welcome  to the Modern  Browser  Experience,  OneStream ’s latest,  web- based  offering  that is 
Generally Available  on OneStream  Platform  Version  8.4.0  or later.  The Modern  Browser  
Experience  works  alongside  the existing  OneStream Windows  application,  giving  users  more  
flexibility  by providing  them  with a way to access  their data from a web browser  on a wide range  of 
devices.  OneStream in the browser  delivers  a streamlined,  modernized  experience  that strives  to 
provide  comprehensive  coverage  of end user features.  With a strong  foundation  developed  
utilizing  contemporary  concepts  and technologies,  the Modern  Browser  Experience  introduces  a 
suite  of innovative  designs  and improved  solutions.
All OneStream  Solution s should  render  in the Modern  Browser  Experience.  To find out which  
solutions  are officially  supported,  refer to solution  documentation.  Additionally,  functionality  
provided  through  the System  and Application  Tabs  is not yet available  through  the browser.
The following  sections  highlight  benefits,  explore  differences,  and provide  current  limitations  to 
help customers  and partners  evaluate  the browser  experience  for their business  needs. 
For requirements,  see Hardware  and Software  requirements  in the Installation  guide.
For more  information  on the installation  process,  see the  Installation  Guide.
For information  on prerequisites  for self-hosted  environments,  refer to the Legacy  Authentication  
section  in the Upgrade  Guide.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 2Modern Browser Experience Overview
New Features  and Functionality  in 
Modern  Browser  Experience  
Version  9.2.0
Modern  Browser  Experience  Version  9.2.0  introduces  new features  across  the platform  and 
includes  a variety  of bug fixes,  performance  improvements,  and security  and privacy  
enhancements.
Functional  Capabilities
Feature Description
Accessibility Implemented  significant  enhancements  to support  screen  reader  
software  and related  keyboard  controls.  Added  an Accessibility  toggle  
that applies  ADA- compliant  colors  and patterns  to certain  Cube  View  
cells,  enhancing  visibility  for users  with limited  color  perception  while  
preserving  the default  experience  for others.  See Appendix  E for a 
comprehensive  list of supported  keyboard  controls.  See Dashboard  
Accessibility  Design  Approaches  for more  information  on accessible  
dashboard  design  strategies.
Dynamic  Grids Dynamic  Grids  have  been  implemented,  providing  designers  with a 
fully customizable,  exceptionally  performant  grid component  for 
dashboards.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 3New Features andFunctionality inModern Browser Experience Version 9.2.0
Cube  Views
Feature Description
Cube  View  
DesignerThe Cube  View  Designer  has been  updated  with an improved  look and feel, 
enabling  more  intuitive  interaction  with on-screen  elements  and fields.  Users  
can now save  a new cube  view directly  from the Cube  View  Designer.  This 
enhancement  allows  users  to save  a modified  design  as a new,  separate  
cube  view.  See Cube  View  Designer  for more  information.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 4New Features andFunctionality inModern Browser Experience Version 9.2.0
Access  the Modern  Browser  
Experience
The browser  URL structure  uses  a company  subdomain  (for example,  
https://cloudsitename.onestreamcloud.com).  OneStream  recommends  using  Chrome,  Edge,  or 
Safari  to access  the Modern  Browser  Experience.
Authentication
For OneStream  hosted  environments,  OneStream  IdentityServer  (OIS)  technology  enables  
browser  users  to authenticate  through  a browser  and enables  administrators  to set up online  
environments  to use native  IDs or an identity  provider  (IdP).  For more  information  on 
authentication  using  OIS, see the Identity  and Access  Management  Guide.
Setup  and configuration  of the Modern  Browser  Experience  may vary based  on how your 
environments  are hosted.  For self-hosted  environments,  users  can authenticate  into the browser  
using  their existing  authentication  method.  Additional  instructions  for self-hosted  authentication  
can be found  in the Installation  Guide.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 5Access theModern Browser Experience
Functional  Capabilities
This section  explores  foundational  capabilities  and general  features  of the Modern  Browser  
Experience,  and highlights  the notable  differences  between  the browser  and Windows  
application.
Intuitive  User  Experience
Log In
The Modern  Browser  Experience  is accessed  through  a web browser  instead  of using  a Windows  
shortcut  or ClickOnce  to open  a local instance  of OneStream . You can use bookmarked  URLs  to 
navigate  to the browser.  Once  successfully  authenticated,  you can select  an application  from the 
drop- down  menu  and click the LOG IN  button  to access  OneStream .
The browser  environment  can be accessed  using  a custom  URL.  For example,  
https://cloudsitename.onestreamcloud.com.  Once  the initial  login  screen  has loaded,  users  can 
enter  a username  and click the Next button  to authenticate  through  their Single  Sign- On (SSO)  
provider.  
Modern Browser Experience Guide 6Functional Capabilities
Following  successful  authentication,  the user will either  be:
 lRedirected  to the Login  Agreement  page  (if applicable).
 lRedirected  to an application  (if only one application  is accessible).
 lRedirected  to the Application  Selection  page  (if more  than one application  is accessible).
Log Out
Users  can log out from the Application  Selection  page  or by selecting  Log Out from the User  
Menu.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 7Functional Capabilities
Logging  out of the Modern  Browser  Experience  will not log out users  from their other  open  
instances  of OneStream , such  as the Windows  application  or Excel  Add- In, nor will it log out users  
from their SSO  sessions.
Change  Applications
Select  Change  Application  from the User  Menu  to display  the Application  Selection  page  and 
change  the current  application.
Header
The Modern  Browser  Experience  provides  a familiar  header  area and updated  OnePlace  panel  
which  can be accessed  at any time while  using  the browser  application.  Similar  to the Windows  
application,  the header  has a Home  button  embedded  in the OneStream  logo and displays  the 
Application  Name.  Other  header  functionality  has been  moved  to two menus  in the top right 
corner  of the screen.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 8Functional Capabilities
 l
 Gear  Icon – Application  Name,  Global  POV,  Version  Number,  Help 
Documentation,  Task  Activity,  File Explorer
 l
 User  Icon – User’s  Name,  Change  Application,  Set/Clear  Home  Page,  
Accessibility,  Log Out
The OnePlace  Panel  can be fully collapsed,  opened  to display  Navigation  controls,  or expanded  
as an overlay  when  working  with any of the menu  areas.
NOTE:  The OnePlace  panel  may be fully hidden  for certain  users  using  security  
settings.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 9Functional Capabilities
OnePlace  Panel
Hide  OnePlace  Panel
The OnePlacePane  security  role can be used  to hide the Navigation  panel.  This configuration  has 
been  added  under  Security  Roles  to enable  or disable  end user access  to the OnePlace  
navigation  panel.  Note  that the Modern  Browser  Experience  does  not provide  a user interface  to 
facilitate  configuring  and applying  security  roles  at this time.
Navigate  OnePlace  Panel
Users  can click a tile on the OnePlace  toolbar  to expand  the flyout  panel  and access  related  end 
user options  and features.  The drop- down  menu  at the top of each  panel  can be used  to easily  
navigate  through  all of the OnePlace  panels.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 10Functional Capabilities
File Explorer
File Explorer  is used  to manage  all OneStream  files and saved  POVs.  The File Explorer  dialog  
can be opened  by selecting  the File Explorer  option  from the Tools  menu  in the application  
header.  File Explorer  functionality  is fully supported  in the Modern  Browser  Experience  and 
primarily  located  on the dialog  toolbar.
 
Modern Browser Experience Guide 11Functional Capabilities
Grids
While  the browser  grids  offer the same  functionality  as the Windows  application,  some  differences  
were  added  to improve  the user experience.  Many  of the grids  have  virtual  scrolling  instead  of 
paging  to handle  large  datasets.  In addition  to the Sorting,  Filtering,  and Column  controls  found  in 
the Windows  application,  the browser  experience  has added  a column  Lock  feature,  which  allows  
users  to lock in place  any column  and the columns  to its left, while  being  able to scroll  the 
remaining  columns  horizontally.   Many  of the grids  will also have  a context  menu  button  
  in the 
left corner  of the grid header  with additional  functionality.  See Appendix  C for a list of supported  
Number  Formats.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 12Functional Capabilities
Anchored  Dialogs
Many  of the dialog  boxes  display  in a slide- out panel  anchored  to the right side of the page  instead  
of the floating  dialogs  used  in the Windows  application.  This paradigm  offers  improved  visibility  
and provides  consistency  for users  accessing  the browser  from various  devices.  Slide- out panels  
can be expanded  or constricted  to suit user preference  by dragging  the left edge  horizontally  
across  the page.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 13Functional Capabilities
This anchored  dialog  box has been  extended  to dashboards  that appear  in dialog  boxes.  There  is 
a larger  default  width  compared  to the Windows  application,  but the width  can be altered  with the 
dialog  box display  format  configurations.  Since  these  dialog  boxes  are always  the full height  of the 
screen,  the height  configuration  for dashboards  in dialog  boxes  are ignored.
Timeout
A warning  for users  who are about  to be logged  off due to inactivity  will now be displayed  in a 
floating  dialog  two minutes  prior to timeout,  providing  users  with the ability  to extend  their session  
or log off. The length  of idle time allowed  for a user can be configured,  but the two-minute  warning  
threshold  is not currently  adjustable.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 14Functional Capabilities
Smart  Links
Smart  Links  are designed  to make  it easy  to share  dashboards.  Built with a combination  of 
security- aware  features  and declarative  parameters,  these  links can open  dashboards  to specific  
pages  or mimic  a series  of clicks.
Smart  Links  are generated  and stored  for a set period  using  a Business  Rule.  To access  a shared  
link, users  will simply  click a hyperlink  or paste  the URL into a browser.  On access,  the Smart  Link 
will:
 lVerify  if the user is logged  in (if not, remain  active  through  the login  process)
 lCheck  if the user has access  to the shared  dashboard
 lVerify  the dashboard  can be rendered  on the user’s  device
Modern Browser Experience Guide 15Functional Capabilities
 lSupply  the dashboard  with any declared  parameters
 lPrompt  the user for any undeclared  parameters
 lRender  the dashboard
Example  Smart  Link URL:  https://example.onestream.com/share/  
E1C52337EEE9430EAAF52D6A5846109B/DashboardProfile/Dashboard
To get started,  review  the code  snippets  in Appendix  D.
Accessibility
Interfaces,  features,  and functionality  provided  in the Modern  Browser  Experience  have  been  
enhanced  to thoroughly  and effectively  support  the industry- standard  Web Content  Accessibility  
Guidelines  (WCAG)  established  by the World  Wide  Web Consortium  (W3C).
Modern Browser Experience Guide 16Functional Capabilities
Workflow
Workflow  on the browser  delivers  the same  functionality  offered  in the Windows  Application  with a 
few notable  exceptions  mentioned  below.  Some  tactical  user experience  improvements  have  
been  made,  while  primarily  focusing  on delivering  the functionality  of the workflow  steps.
Navigation
Similar  to the Windows  Application,  Workflows  are accessed  through  the OnePlace  panel.  Users  
are able to modify  the Workflow  POV  by selecting  the edit icon next to each  dimension  and 
navigate  between  Workflow  Units  under  Time  Periods.  It is important  to note a few differences  
between  the browser  and the Windows  Application:
 lThe Workflow  POV  Edit menu  is displayed  as an overlay  menu,  instead  of a pop-up dialog.  
Users  are able to update  Workflow,  Scenario,  and Year  using  the available  tabs.  A Save  
button  at the top of the section  finalizes  any changes.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 17Workflow
 lThe new Focus  View  function  allows  users  to view only the selected  time period.  In the 
example  below,  a user chose  to view only June  to simplify  navigation.  To return  to the full 
list, simply  disable  the Focus  View  toggle.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 18Workflow
Status  Icons  have  been  updated,  and in some  cases,  combined  to make  a more  intuitive  user 
experience.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 19Workflow
Workflow  Breadcrumbs
You can navigate  to a specific  month,  time period,  scenario,  or workflow  step of your choosing  
from the workflow  navigation  feature.  Selecting  an option  will take you to the corresponding  step.  
A new drop- down  menu  in the Workflow  page  title bar allows  users  to quickly  toggle  between  
Workflow  Steps  in a Time  Period.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 20Workflow
Supported  Workflow  Functionality
Workflow  Steps
 lBlend  lJournal  Input
 lCertify  lLoad
 lConfirm  lPre-Process
 lDirect  lProcess
 lForm  lValidate
 lImport  lWorkspace
General  Workflow  Functionality
 lDrill Back  lTime  Range  Periods
 lDrill Down  lView  Transformation  Rules
 lAnalysis  Area  lView  Processing  Log
 lApplication  Configurations  lView  Source  Document
 lIntercompany  Matching  lTime  Period  Actions
 lMulti- Period  Processing  lDependent  Actions
Modern Browser Experience Guide 21Workflow
Notable  Differences  from  Windows  
Application
 lJournals  - The Journal  Input  page  in the Modern  Browser  Experience  utilizes  an updated  
layout  that is different  from design  used  in the Windows  application  but intended  to improve  
the user experience  and increase  productivity.  Refer  to the screenshot  and list below  to 
review  specific,  key differences  between  the two interfaces.
 o1 - Journal  Template  appears  in collapsible  pane.
 o2 - Entities  appear  in upper  grid.
 o3 - Journals'  Grid now appears  above  the Journal  details.
 o4 - Paging  on Journals'  Grid.
 o5 - Journal  details  appear  below  the Journals'  Grid.
 o6 - Journal  header  settings  appear  in collapsible  drown- downs.
 o7 - Journal  Header.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 22Workflow
 o8 - Journal  Line Items.
 o9 - Paging  on journal  line items.
 lWorkflow  Page  Styling  – Workflow  Title,  Workflow  Steps,  Grids,  Status  Area,  and Analysis  
Area.
 lStatus  Icons  – Consistent  with the OnePlace  panel,  the Workflow  status  icons  have  been  
simplified  in the browser  to make  a more  intuitive  user experience.
 l
 lWorkflow  Progress  Buttons  – Now displayed  on the right side of the screen,  the progress  
buttons  have  been  updated  with new icons  and borders  to improve  visibility.
 lDrag  and Drop  File Import  – Files  can be imported  by selecting  from your device  or using  a 
new drag and drop feature.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 23Workflow
 lContext  Menus  for Grids  – All Workflow  Grid functions  have  been  moved  from right- click 
menus  to a context  menu  in the header  of each  grid.
 lRename  Journal  – You can rename  journals  by editing  the Journal  Name  property  in the 
journal  header,  instead  of a rename  button  and dialog.
Notable  Workflow  Functionality  Gaps
Workflow  Steps
 lManage  Workflow
General  Workflow  Functionality
 lEdit Transformation  Rules
Modern Browser Experience Guide 24Workflow
Navigating  Workflow  Step  Gaps
Helpful  tips have  been  added  to the browser  experience  to identify  unsupported  workflow  steps  
for both dashboard  designers  and end users.  Coming  Soon  icons  indicate  a workflow  step is not 
currently  supported.
Even  if all steps  are supported  in each  workflow,  thorough  testing  is still recommended  to ensure  
processes  are working  as expected  before  production  use.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 25Workflow
Cube  Views
Cube  views  are flexible  reporting  artifacts  that enable  cube  data to be presented  and edited  in 
various  ways  by utilizing  security,  configuration,  and formatting  properties,  member  formulas,  and 
calculations.
Nearly  all cube  view features  provided  in the Windows  Application  are available  to users  of the 
Modern  Browser  Experience.  For cube  views  that utilize  features  or functionality  that have  not yet 
been  implemented,  or in cases  when  variations  arise  due to technical  differences  between  
desktop  and web- based  applications,  there  may be configuration  changes  or workarounds  that 
can be leveraged  until functional  gaps  can be closed.
For Cube  View  keyboard  controls,  see Appendix  E: Component  Keyboard  Controls .
Supported  Cube  View  Functionality
Presentation
 lCube  View  and Export  Format  Configuration  Properties
 lCell Data  Types
 lCell Status  Background  Colors
 lRow and Column  Sharing
 lNested  and Expandable  Column  and Row Headers
Modern Browser Experience Guide 26Cube Views
Toolbar  Functions
 lContext  Menu  Dropdown
 lSave  and Revert  Changes
 lData  Refresh
 lParameter  Selection
Cube  View  and Cell- Level  Context  Menu  Functions
 lCalculate,  Translate,  Consolidate
 lData  Attachments
 lSpreading
 lCell Detail
 lCell POV  Information
 lData  Unit Statistics
 lCell Status
 lDrill Down
 lRow Suppression
 lExport
 lCube  View  and Dashboard  Navigation  Links
Modern Browser Experience Guide 27Cube Views
Cube  View  Navigation
The General  Visibility  setting  in Cube  View  profiles  will be applicable  for cube  views  and the 
Windows  application  (OnePlace,  Workflow,  and Dashboards).  The Client/Device  Visibility  setting  
in Dashboard  profiles  will also affect  access  to embedded  cube  views  or data explorer  
components  in Dashboards.  See Dashboards .
Cube  View  Drill Down
The Drill Down  interface  has been  moved  from a page  tab into a slide- out panel.  You can drill 
down  into cube  data from a cell intersection  by right- clicking  the cell and selecting  Drill Down  
from the cube  view context  menu.  The cube  view drill down  interface  opens  in a slide- out panel,  
which  can be resized  horizontally.
Currently,  only the Open  in Panel  option  is supported.  The Open  in New Tab option  will be 
considered  in a future  release.
A context  menu  was also added  to the toolbar  on the Drill Down  page  to consolidate  some  
functionality  in a way that better  supports  different  screen  sizes  and devices.
A hidden  context  menu  for drill down  has been  implemented  to consolidate  key drill down  
functions,  such  as Load  Results  for Imported  Cell and Audit  History  for Forms  or Adjustment  
Cells.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 28Cube Views
Cube  View  Designer
The Cube  View  Designer  is a new feature  in the Modern  Browser  Experience  that is based  closely  
on the design  of the Cube  View  Designer  in the Windows  application.  However,  the Cube  View  
Designer  in the Modern  Browser  Experience  is accessed  from pre-existing  cube  views  and 
provides  users  with the ability  to see the underlying  configurations  that define  the structure  and 
presentation  of the originating  cube  view.  Users  can edit those  configurations  and preview  their 
changes  directly  from the designer,  and administrators  can save  their design  updates  to the 
originating  cube  view.
Users  with the appropriate  privileges  can open  the Cube  View  Designer  by selecting  the option  
from the cube  view toolbar  and hidden  context  menu.  When  the Cube  View  Designer  dialog  is 
opened,  a copy  of the originating  cube  view is rendered  in the dialog.  Users  can view and/or  edit 
the row and column  layout,  expansion  levels,  member  filters,  display  format  definitions,  data 
configuration  settings,  and general  row and column  templates.  Please  note the following  
differences  between  the Windows  application  and browser  designer  interfaces:
 lCube  POV  can be found  under  the Member  Filters  tab. The POV  applies  to the entire  cube  
view.
 lCube  View  Row/Column  Sharing  settings  can be found  under  the Sharing  tab when  the 
Default  cell is selected  in the layout  grid. These  sharing  settings  apply  to the entire  cube  
view.  Users  must  enter  cube  view template  names  manually  as the object  look- up dialog  
has not yet been  implemented  in the designer.  Specific  row/column  sharing  settings  are not 
currently  available  to edit or view in the designer.
 lDisplay  formatting  settings  must  be entered  manually  in the designer  as the formatting  
dialogs  have  not yet been  implemented  for this feature.
 lShortcut  Cube  View  Names  must  be entered  manually  in the designer  as the object  lookup  
dialog  has not yet been  implemented  for this feature.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 29Cube Views
Once  changes  have  been  made  to any of the available  configurations  in the designer,  the Preview  
button  can be used  to process  those  changes  and render  the new,  temporary  design  of the cube  
view in the left panel  of the dialog.  The Preview  function  does  not change  the configuration  of the 
originating  cube  view but instead  provides  users  with a way to quickly  see how their changes  
would  impact  the design  and presentation  of the cube  view.  After  previewing  changes,  users  can 
make  further  updates  and preview  the temporary  cube  view again  or use the Revert  button  at any 
time to revert  settings  back  to the last saved  version  of the original  cube  view.
Users  with the appropriate  security  privileges  can use the Publish  feature  to create  or overwrite  a 
cube  view using  the configuration  settings  defined  in the designer.  Clicking  on the Publish  button  
opens  a menu  with options  to Save  or Save  As.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 30Cube Views
 lSelecting  Save  will overwrite  settings  in the original  cube  view definition  with the settings  
specified  in the designer.
 lSelecting  Save  As will open  a dialog  that provides  users  with the option  to enter  a name,  
description,  and/or  cube  view group  and save  the modified  configuration  in the designer  as 
a new cube  view.  Users  can select  a cube  view group  from the drop- down  menu  to review  
the group  details  and associated  cube  views  in the two panels  below  Settings.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 31Cube Views
User  Experience  Differentiators
Row virtualization  has been  implemented  to efficiently  retrieve  and render  large  datasets  for Cube  
Views.  Row virtualization  retrieves  data to display  as the user scrolls  vertically  through  Cube  View  
pages,  improving  performance  of client- side data rendering  and enabling  a more  seamless  data 
review  process.  Row virtualization  occurs  in defined  Cube  View  page  boundaries.
Cube  View  Designer
 lThe Cube  View  Designer  interface  in the Modern  Browser  experience  can only be 
accessed  from an existing  cube  view (via the toolbar  menu  or hidden  context  menu)  at this 
time.
Autofit
 lThe Modern  Browser  Experience  provides  users  with two different  ways  to autofit  column  
widths  in cube  views:
 oThe default  autofit  method  will determine  the width  of a given  column  based  on the 
length  of the column  header  text when  there  is no width  specified  for that column.  The 
default  minimum  column  width  of 160px  will be applied  if the column  header  text is 
shorter  in length.
 oThe new autofit  is enabled  when  the global  column  width  for a cube  view is set to 
"Auto."  When  this is specified,  each  column  width  is set to the length  of the widest  cell 
found  within  the top 30 rows  of that column.  If any column  has a specific  width  
defined,  that width  setting  will be utilized  instead  of autofit.  This must  be set at the 
global  level and will not work  for specific  columns  with width  set to "Auto."  The default  
minimum  column  width  of 160px  will not be used  when  "Auto"  is set globally  for cube  
view columns.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 32Cube Views
Unsupported  Cube  View  Functionality
 lAllocation
 lCube  View  Designer
 oGeneral  Settings
 nHeader  Text,  Size,  and Overrides
 nReport
Modern Browser Experience Guide 33Cube Views
 nExcel
 nNavigation  Links
 oReport  Header
 oReport  Footer
 oRows  and Columns
 nSharing
 nRow Overrides
 nColumn  Overrides
 nConditional  Formatting
Accessibility
To further  improve  Cube  View  readability  for individuals  who do not rely on screen  readers  or 
color  cues,  an optional  toggle  has been  introduced  that provides  the ability  to switch  between  
default  background  colors  or patterns  to better  distinguish  valid,  invalid,  or unsaved  cells.  Note  
that custom  cell background  display  formatting  will take precedence  over the default  background  
colors  and patterns.  The Accessibility  Plus toggle  can be found  in the User  Menu  and the default  
state  is off.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 34Cube Views
Modern Browser Experience Guide 35Cube Views
Dashboards
Functional  coverage  (with  the goal of offering  equivalent  use of layouts  and components  available  
in the Windows  application)  continues  to be expanded  upon  for dashboards  in the Modern  
Browser  Experience.  Currently,  the most  commonly  used  features  are available.  For dashboards  
that contain  elements  that have  not yet been  delivered  or expose  issues  that may arise  through  
use of unique  design  techniques,  there  are typically  design  and configuration  changes  or 
workarounds  that can be utilized  to achieve  the same  goals  until subsequent  releases  close  those  
particular,  functional  gaps.
While  browser  capabilities  move  toward  comprehensive  end user dashboard  functionality  and 
parity  between  the Windows  application  and the Modern  Browser  Experience,  different,  
underlying  technologies  utilized  to develop  the clients  will potentially  prevent  exact  replication  of 
dashboards  in both clients.  Additionally,  the architecture  used  to support  interface  styling  is 
different  between  the clients,  causing  dashboards  designed  for one client  to look dissimilar  when  
rendered  in another.
If a preexisting  dashboard  contains  only supported  layouts  and components,  it can be enabled  for 
use with a single  configuration.  However,  for an optimized  user experience  on the browser  or on 
mobile  devices,  designers  may consider  modifying  the dashboard  or creating  new client/device  
specific  dashboards.
Enabling  Dashboard  Access
To ensure  dashboards  are only rendered  within  the client  (Windows  application  or browser)  or 
device  (PC, tablet,  or phone),  a new configuration  has been  added  to the Dashboard  Profile  called  
Client/Device  Visibility.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 36Dashboards
The Client/Device  Visibility  configuration  enables  dashboard  designers  to control  which  
dashboard  profiles,  and the dashboards  they contain,  can be accessed  and viewed  on one or 
more  clients  and devices.  Enabling  this configuration  will display  the dashboard  in the OnePlace  
Dashboard  list of the respective  client/device  selection.
Preexisting  and newly  created  dashboards  will be set to the Windows  application  only by default.  
Dashboards  are not initially  visible.  Dashboards  always  render  in Workflows.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 37Dashboards
Notable  Differences  from  Windows  
Application
Dashboard  Components
BI Viewer
You may observe  style differences,  like muted  borders  and headers,  or alternative  style 
visualizations.
BI Viewer  sometimes  shows  infinite  loading  screens  in Browser  that are driven  by differences  in 
how the component  reads  configurations.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 38Dashboards
Observed  
BehaviorCause Resolution
Infinite  
Loading  
Screen  
AppearsA filter is set to a question  mark  
(?).Update  the filter to be set to an empty  
string.  Validated  in browser  and 
WinApp.
Infinite  
Loading  
Screen  
AppearsA Calculated  Field  is set to a 
decimal  without  a leading  zero.  
(Example:  .2).Update  the filter to include  a leading  
zero.  (Example:  0.2) Validated  in 
browser  and WinApp.
BI Viewer  Designer
BI Viewer  Designer  allows  users  to modify  components  directly  in the Modern  Browser  
Experience  without  navigating  back  to the Windows  Application.  The BI Designer  Interface  is 
currently  only available  to users  who have  permissions  to edit the dashboard.  Depending  on the 
BI Viewer  configurations,  users  may open  the BI Designer  Interface  using  the following  methods:
 lIf the BI Viewer  has a title, then a pencil  icon will appear  on the right side of the title bar.
 lIf the BI Viewer  does  not have  a title, then a pencil  icon will appear  in a hover- over menu  on 
each  component.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 39Dashboards
BI Viewer  Designer  includes  most  of the same  functions  available  in the Windows  Application  in a 
new browser- optimized  layout.  Component  settings,  like save  or data sources,  are found  in the 
upper  left menu.  Users  can add components  using  the tool bar at the left. Each  component  
includes  its own hover- over menu  to modify  component- specific  settings.  The browser  BI Viewer  
Designer  does  not support  adding  data adapters  or creating  BI Viewer  components  from scratch.  
These  steps  must  be done  in the OneStream Windows  Application  before  they can be modified  in 
the browser.  See BI Viewer  Designer  documentation  for more  information.
Embedded  Dashboards
New client/device  specific  dashboards  configurations  allow  a single  root dashboard  to render  
different  embedded  dashboards  depending  on the client  or device  type.  (More  details  on the use 
of this configuration  are described  within  the Multi- Client/Device  Dashboard  Design  Approaches  
below)
Modern Browser Experience Guide 40Dashboards
Modern Browser Experience Guide 41Dashboards
 
Modern Browser Experience Guide 42Dashboards
Text Box
The Find and Replace  formatting  options  are currently  not available  when  using  Rich Text in the 
Modern  Browser  Experience.
Grid View
Grid options  are now listed  in a context  menu.
SQL Table  Editor
Additional  options  are now listed  in a context  menu.  Edited  cells have  minor  style updates.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 43Dashboards
 
Grid Keyboard  Functionality
The browser  experience  includes  basic  keyboard  shortcuts.  See Appendix  E for more  information.
Large  Data  Pivot  Grid & Pivot  Grid
Pivot  Grids  in the browser  now come  with a streamlined  configuration,  and a modernized  
interface,  while  maintaining  compatibility  with existing  workflows  like the ability  to drag and drop 
fields.  Both Pivot  Grids  and Large  Data  Pivot  Grids  benefit  from updated  data processing  that 
ensures  all data is available  for aggregation.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 44Dashboards
Notable  Differences  in Pivot  Grids
Field  Controls  are displayed  in a floating  dialog  box and launch  using  the Show  Field  Chooser  
button  in the upper  right corner  of the pivot  grid.
A count  of total rows  in the dataset  is displayed  on the top right of the pivot  grid.
NOTE:  This count  will not change  when  filtering  data,  it will always  display  the total 
count  of rows.
In the Field  Chooser  dialog  box, you can select  or clear  any field in the All Fields  section  or drag 
and drop any field into the Row Fields,  Column  Fields,  Data  Fields  or Filter  Fields.  Field  selections  
update  at real time once  you select  the OK button  and close  the Field  Chooser  dialog  box. 
Filtering  options  are available  for each  field.
Button Action
Modern Browser Experience Guide 45Dashboards
Displays  bar chart  above  the grid.
NOTE:  Once  the View  Chart  button  is 
clicked,  it changes  to the Hide Chart  
button.
Opens  Field  Chooser  dialog  box.
Exports  to an .xslx file.
Charts  in Pivot  Grids
When  the chart  is displayed,  you can hover  the mouse  over any of the bars for more  information.
NOTE:  Bar charts  are the only available  chart  type at this time.
Keyboard  Controls  in Pivot  Grids
A wide array  of functions  allow  users  to interact  with Pivot  Grids  using  keyboard  shortcuts.  See 
Appendix  E for a full list of interactions.
Advanced  Charts
There  are some  charts  and configuration  properties  that are not currently  supported.  See 
Appendix  A for a detailed  breakdown.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 46Dashboards
Text Editor
The Text Editor  feature  mirrors  almost  all of the windows  application  functionality  including:  
create,  save,  open,  edit, rich text editing,  insert,  and layout  functions.  Additionally,  
OneStream functions  such  as refresh  documents,  show  field codes,  and hide field codes  are also 
available  in the browser.  One key difference  of this feature  is that the Review  tab is not currently  
available.
Filter  Editor
The Filter  Editor  component  gives  users  a visual  interface  for modifying  and applying  advanced  
logic to filters.  While  most  operators  are available  in the browser,  the following  are not currently  
supported:  Not And, Not Or, and Not Between  (Numeric  Values).  Only Equals  and Does  Not 
Equal  generate  a data bound  drop- down  list. Other  operators  render  a text box.
See Dashboard  Filter  Editor  in the Design  and Reference  Guide  for more  information.
Maps
Hover- over images  for shapes  on Maps  are not currently  available.
Menu
Menu  component  images  expand  to fit all available  space  in the Modern  Browser  Experience.  
Ensure  that the image  source  being  used  is set to 96 DPI for consistent  display  in the Modern  
Browser  Experience  and the Windows  Application.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 47Dashboards
Spreadsheet
The Modern  Browser  Experience's  Spreadsheet  feature  provides  users  with the ability  to utilize  
spreadsheet  functionality  similar  to the Excel  Add- in directly  through  the browser.  Spreadsheet  
behaves  similar  in the browser  experience  as it does  in the Windows  Application.  Refer  to 
Appendix  B for supported  and unsupported  functionality  in Spreadsheet.
Web  Content
By default,  Web Content  is opened  in a new tab in the browser.  The content  may also be rendered  
directly  in a dashboard  using  an iframe  by modifying  the following  component  configuration:
 lOpen  Content  in New Tab (Web  Only)  - Set the value  of this field to "False"  to open  web 
content  in an iframe.
NOTE:  Not all websites  are compatible  with iframes  and some  may be blocked  from 
rendering  in an iframe.  Thorough  testing  of all use cases  for Target  URLs  is strongly  
encouraged.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 48Dashboards
Notable  Dashboard  Functionality  Gaps
Dashboard  Layouts
 lCanvas
 lDock
 lWrap
Dashboard  Components
 lBasic  Charts
 lPassword  Box
 lSankey  Diagram
 lState  Indicator
Navigating  Dashboard  Gaps
Helpful  tips have  been  added  to both the Windows  application  and the Modern  Browser  
Experience  to assist  dashboard  designers  and end users  in identifying  dashboard  layouts  and 
components  that are not yet supported  on the browser.
In the Windows  application,  labels  for Windows  App Only have  been  added  to both the 
Dashboard  Properties  Layout  Type  and Dashboard  Component  selection  lists.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 49Dashboards
A placeholder  image  indicates  if the dashboard  layout  or component  is not currently  supported.  A 
hover  tooltip  specifies  the layout  or component  that is not rendering.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 50Dashboards
Even  if all dashboard  layouts  and components  are supported,  we still recommend  conducting  a 
full regression  test of any dashboard  that is being  transferred  from the Windows  application  to the 
browser  to ensure  functional  parity  before  production  use.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 51Dashboards
Dashboard  Design  Process
When  building  a dashboard  for browser  use, designers  should  open  both their Windows  
application  and Modern  Browser  Experience  simultaneously.  Using  the Windows  application,  
designers  can update  and save  dashboard  configurations.  To view reflected  changes,  simply  
refresh  the browser.
When  building  a dashboard  for use on a tablet  or phone,  designers  can follow  the same  process,  
using  either  a physical  device  or mobile  device  emulator  in a browser.  Designers  should  make  
sure they log into their browser  environment  with the emulator  properly  sized  to ensure  the 
browser  experience  reacts  to the device  it is emulating.
As with the Windows  application,  using  dashboard  design  best practices  can significantly  improve  
the performance  of a dashboard.  The browser  experience  may have  performance  sensitivities  
that differ  from the Windows  application.
Dashboard  Accessibility  Design  Approaches
OneStream  Dashboard  components  are configured  to support  standard  accessibility  guidelines,  
allowing  for users  to navigate  through  elements  using  the keyboard  and for screen  readers  to 
convey  element  names,  contextual  roles,  and values  (as applicable).  Element  names  are 
conveyed  based  on a component's  configured  name  or description  and the component  type 
reflects  the role..
The following  optional  dashboard  components  have  some  accessibility  limitations:
 lAdvanced  Charts
 lBI Viewer
 lFilter  Editor
Modern Browser Experience Guide 52Dashboards
 lMap
 lLarge  Data  Pivot  Grid
 lPivot  Grid
 lText Editor
Dashboards  are highly  customizable  so it is important  to design  with accessibility  in mind,  
leveraging  properties  such  as font, color,  sizing,  and use of parameters,  among  many  others.
Image  and Label  dashboard  components  can now be configured  to skip through  UI elements  that 
don't  contain  content  while  using  keyboard  controls  to navigate.  To configure  an Image  or Label  
component  so it can be skipped,  type |SKIP|  in the description  field of the component  in the 
Component  Properties  tab.
Additionally,  keyboard  users  will see a link appear  when  they bring  focus  to an embedded  
dashboard  that enables  them  to move  past the content  contained  in that dashboard  and navigate  
directly  to the next embedded  dashboard  in the page,  providing  additional  efficiency  by allowing  
for quicker  navigation  through  content- rich dashboards.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 53Dashboards
Multi- client/Device  Dashboard  Design  Approaches
When  designing  a dashboard  that will be used  across  multiple  clients  or devices,  dashboard  
designers  can use three  different  approaches  to find the right balance  of upfront  effort,  end-user 
optimization,  and maintenance  effort  that best suits their needs.
Approach  1: Unified  Multi- client/Device  Dashboards
This approach  uses  a single  non-adaptive  dashboard.  The designer  will most  likely  have  to make  
compromises  to make  it usable  for each  client/device  type.  These  compromises  typically  result  in 
a simplified  dashboard  with efficient  maintenance.  This type of dashboard  needs  to have  the 
proper  combination  Client/Device  Visibility  configurations  to be accessible  from the OnePlace  
Dashboard  across  clients  and devices.  It can be more  difficult  for multi- device  use due to varying  
space  for dashboard  components,  but it is an effective  way to access  dashboards  initially.  
Designers  can rely on this approach  to update  existing  Windows  application  dashboards  for use. 
For more  complex  scenarios,  designers  should  consider  building  client/device  specific  
dashboards  or adaptive  dashboards.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 54Dashboards
Approach  2: Client/Device  Specific  Dashboards
This approach  uses  multiple  non-adaptive  dashboards.  Designers  create  separate  dashboards  
that render  equivalent  information  and functionalities  but have  different  designs  that are optimized  
for specific  client  and device  types.  These  dashboards  need  to be added  to separate  dashboard  
profiles.  Each  of the dashboard  profiles  have  different  Client/Device  Visibility  configurations,  
which  limits  their visibility  in the OnePlace  Dashboard  list to only the appropriate  client  or device  
they were  designed  for. This approach  offers  an optimized  user experience  and low design  
complexity,  but it has a high maintenance  effort.
Approach  3: Client/Device  Adaptive  Dashboards
This approach  uses  a single  adaptive  dashboard.  Designers  need  an initial  understanding  of how 
their dashboard  should  adapt  to each  client  or device  type intended  for use. The designer  creates  
Embedded  Dashboards  with configurations  that link to client/device  specific  dashboards.  The 
Embedded  Dashboards  can be placed  at any level within  nested  dashboards  allowing  designers  
to easily  customize  components  shared  across  multiple  devices  or create  unique  experiences  per 
device  type.  This approach  offers  a highly  optimized  user experience  and lower  maintenance  
effort,  but it has high design  complexity.
Current  dashboards  that have  been  designed  previously  for the OneStream  Windows  application  
may need  to be redesigned  for an optimized  user experience  on the browser  or alternative  device  
types.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 55Dashboards
Documents
The Documents  panel  in the Modern  Browser  Experience  offers  an intuitive  interface  based  on 
the design  of the Windows  Platform.  Files  accessed  through  the browser  can only be downloaded  
to the user's  local machine  and cannot  be opened  in local applications  due to security  concerns.  
Additionally,  a context  menu  has been  implemented  at the top of the Documents  area that 
provides  a button  to download  selected  documents.  This context  menu  also provides  a button  to 
open  the File Explorer  dialog  and view File Details.  The File Details  can be viewed  by double-
clicking  a file name.  
Modern Browser Experience Guide 56Documents
When  a folder  is selected,  the context  menu  provides  specific  options  to open  the folder  in File 
Explorer  and or view the Folder  Details.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 57Documents
The POV  used  to view files and folders  cannot  be modified  in the Documents  panel,  but can be 
applied  through  the File Explorer.
NOTE:  When  downloading  files from OneStream , users  may need  to update  the file 
associations  on their devices  in order  to recognize  OneStream  specific  file extensions.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 58Documents
POV
The POV  panel  can be accessed  from the OnePlace  toolbar  and can be used  to view and modify  
the current  Cube  POV.  Similar  to Workflow  POV,  the Cube  POV  menu  is presented  as an overlay  
instead  of a floating  dialog.  Notably,  information  from the Windows  Platform  POV  menu  is 
displayed  in a two different  areas  in the browser:
 lGlobal  POV : Select  the gear icon in the application  header  to view current  Global  POV.
 lWorkflow  POV:  Navigate  to Workflow  from the OnePlace  panel  to view and modify  the 
current  Workflow  POV.
Additional  Features
Modify  a POV
To modify  a POV,  click the pencil  icon next to each  field,  make  your modification,  and click Save.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 59POV
Save  a POV
To save  a POV,  select  Save  POV  from the POV  context  menu.  File Explorer  will then open,  
providing  the option  to name  and save  the current  POV  settings.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 60POV
Apply  a Saved  POV
Saved  POVs  are stored  in File Explorer.  To set a saved  POV,  use the Apply  POV  button  in the 
File Explorer  toolbar.  You must  select  an item with the file type of POV  selected  to see the button.  
POV  can only be applied  through  the File Explorer.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 61POV
Appendix  A: Advanced  Charts
The following  chart  types  are currently  supported  by the Advanced  Charts  dashboard  component.
XY2D Area,  Area  Stacked,  Area  Full Stacked,  Area  
Spline,  Area  Step,  Bar, Bar Stacked,  Bar Full 
Stacked,  Bar Side By Side Stacked,  Bar Side By 
Side Full Stacked,  Line,  Line Stacked,  Line Full 
Stacked,  Line Step,  Waterfall
Simple2D Nested  Donut,  Pie And Donut
The following  chart  types  are not currently  supported  by the Advanced  Charts  dashboard  
component.
XY2D Area  Range,  Bar Side By Side,  Bar Range  
Overlapped,  Bar Range  Overlapped  Waterfall,  
Bar Range  Side By Side,  Bar Range  Side By 
Side Waterfall,  Bubble,  Candlestick,  Line 
Scatter,  Point,  Spline,  Stock
Simple2D Funnel
Polar2D Polar  Area,  Polar  Line,  Polar  Point
Radar2D Radar  Area,  Radar  Line,  Radar  Point
Modern Browser Experience Guide 62Appendix A:Advanced Charts
Configuration  Properties
The following  chart  configuration  properties  are not currently  supported  by the Advanced  Charts  
dashboard  component.
Chart Show  Toggle  Size Button,  Point  Label  Text 
Format,  Enable  Animations
Crosshair Crosshair  Enabled,  Show  Crosshair  Lines,  
Show  Crosshair  Labels,  Crosshair  Label  Mode,  
Crosshair  Label  Text Format
Legend Show  Check  Boxes,  Show  Border
X-Axis,  Y-Axis,  Secondary  Y-Axis Text Format,  Use Automatic  Step,  Step,  
Interlaced,  Interlaced  Color,  Show  Minor  Grid 
Lines
Y-Axis,  Secondary  Y-Axis Scale  Break  Style  Type,  Maximum  Number  of 
Scale  Breaks
Series  Properties Model  Display  Type,  Marker  Size,  Bar Width,  
Pie Hole Radius  Percent
Waterfall  Series  Properties Total  Included  in Series
Modern Browser Experience Guide 63Appendix A:Advanced Charts
Appendix  B: Spreadsheet  Features  
and Functionality
To access  the Spreadsheet  component  in the Modern Browser  Experience,  you must  embed  it 
within  a dashboard.
Supported  Spreadsheet  Features  and 
Functionality
Component  Integration  lDashboards
 lWorkflow  Forms
Modern Browser Experience Guide 64Appendix B:Spreadsheet Features andFunctionality
Data  Sources  and Related  
Functionality lSpreadsheet  Files
 oCreate,  open,  edit, and save
 lCube  View  Connections
 oCreate,  display,  edit, and remove
 oRefresh  data and submit  changes
 oSupport  for Cube  View  formatting
 lTable  View  Definitions
 oCreate,  display,  edit, and remove
 oRefresh  data and submit  changes
 lRetrieve  Functions
 oSupported  Functions
 nXFGetCell,  XFGetCell5,  
XFGetFXRate,  
XFGetCalculatedFxRate,  
XFGetMemberProperty,  
XFGetRelationshipProperty,  
XFGetHierarchyProperty,  
XFGetMemberInfo  XFSetCell  , 
XFSetFXRate
 nRefresh  data and submit  
changes  (XFSetCell  only)
Modern Browser Experience Guide 65Appendix B:Spreadsheet Features andFunctionality
Ribbon  Functions  lNew (Create  Spreadsheet)
 lOpen  (Local  File, OneStream  System  File, 
Application  Workspace  File, System  
Workspace  File)
 lSave  As (OneStream  System  File, 
Application  Workspace  File, System  
Workspace  File)
 lRefresh  Sheet  and Refresh  Workbook
 lSubmit  Sheet  and Submit  Workbook
Unsupported  Spreadsheet  Features  and 
Functionality
Charts  lLimited  Chart  Types
 lColor  Customization
Modern Browser Experience Guide 66Appendix B:Spreadsheet Features andFunctionality
Functions  lQuick  Views
 lFormula  Bar
 lMacros
 lSolver
 lSheet  References
 lDocument  Properties
 lContext  Menu  Features  and Functions
 lInsert  Copied/Cut  Cells
 lKeyboard  Controls:
 oShift + End
 oCtrl + PageUp  / Ctrl + PageDown  
(does  not set tab focus)
 oCtrl + N (overwrites  spreadsheet  
with unsaved  changes)
Formatting  lPreview  Font Formats
 lConditional  Formatting
 lCell Borders  (last selection  is reset  after 
format  is applied)
Modern Browser Experience Guide 67Appendix B:Spreadsheet Features andFunctionality
Appendix  C: Supported  Number  
Formats
The following  formats  for numbers  and dates  are currently  supported  in the Modern  Browser  
Experience  for these  components:
 lCube  Views
 lDynamic  Grids
 lGrid Views
 lSQL Table  Editor
Modern Browser Experience Guide 68Appendix C:Supported Number Formats
Appendix  D: Smart  Link APIs
Create  Smart  Link
The following  business  rules  create  Smart  Links  and allow  developers  to provide  dynamic  
parameters  (Custom  Substitution  Variables)  using  name- value  pairs.  In the code  snippets  below,  
link expiration  is set to 240 hours  (10 days)  and outputs  the Smart  Link in a message  box. 
Optionally,  the link can direct  a user to a different  OneStream  environment  using  Host Override  or 
append  a custom  name  to the end of the Smart  Link URL using  Custom  Name .
C# Code  Snippet:
public XFSelectionChangedTaskResult  CreateSmartLink (SessionInfo  si, BRGlobals  globals,  
object api, DashboardExtenderArgs  args)
        {
            // Create new smart link and set expiration
            var smartlink  = new XFSmartLink ();    
            smartlink.IsSystemlevel  = true;
            smartlink.ExpirationDateUtc  = DateTime.UtcNow. AddHours (240);
            
            // Optional  Properties
            // Host override:  Allows to change the host value. Must be a value host
            //smartlink.HostOverride  = "https://buxtest.com:444";
            
            // Custom Name: Adds a suffix at the end of the smart link. Alphanumeric,  50 
characters  max.
            //smartlink.CustomName  = "ThisIsACustomName";
 
            var dashboard  = new XFSmartLinkDashboard ();
            
            // Change values below to target different  applications/  Dashboards
            dashboard.ApplicationName  = "GolfStreamDemo_ v36";
            dashboard.DashboardName  = "SmartLinks" ;
            dashboard.WorkspaceName  = "Default" ;
            dashboard.DashboardProfileName  = "Default" ;
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars  = new Dictionary< string, string>();
            
            // Add/ Remove the lines below to modify the custom subst vars that will be 
applied.
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars. Add("parameter1" , "value");
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars. Add("parameter2" , "value2" );            
Modern Browser Experience Guide 69Appendix D:Smart Link APIs
            
            smartlink.TargetObject  = dashboard;
                
            string sValue = BRApi.State. CreateSmartLink (si, smartlink);
            var match = System.Text.RegularExpressions.Regex. Match(sValue,  @"share/ ([A-Z0-9]
{32})");
            
            BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters. SetLiteralParameterValue (si, false, "slid", 
match.Groups [1].Value);
            
            var result = new XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ();
            result.IsOK  = true;
            result.ShowMessageBox  = true;
            result.Message  = sValue;
            return result;
        }
VB Code  Snippet: 
Public Function  CreateSmartLink (ByVal si As SessionInfo,  ByVal globals As BRGlobals,  ByVal 
api As Object, ByVal args As DashboardExtenderArgs)  As XFSelectionChangedTaskResult
            ' Create new smart link and set expiration
            Dim smartlink  = New XFSmartLink ()
            smartlink.IsSystemlevel  = True
            smartlink.ExpirationDateUtc  = DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours (240)
            
            ' Optional  Properties
            ' Host override:  Allows To change the host value. Must be a value host
            'smartlink.HostOverride  = "https://buxtest.com:444"
            
            ' Custom Name: Adds a suffix at the End Of the smart link. Alphanumeric,  50 
characters  max.
            'smartlink.CustomName  = "ThisIsACustomName"
            
            Dim dashboard  = New XFSmartLinkDashboard ()
            
            ' Change values below to target different  applications/  Dashboards
            dashboard.ApplicationName  = "GolfStreamDemo_ v36"
            dashboard.DashboardName  = "SmartLinks"
            dashboard.WorkspaceName  = "Default"
            dashboard.DashboardProfileName  = "Default"
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars  = New Dictionary (Of String, String)()
            
            ' Add/ Remove the lines below to modify the custom subst vars that will be 
applied.
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars.Add ("parameter1" , "value")
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars.Add ("parameter2" , "value2" )
            
            smartlink.TargetObject  = dashboard
            
            Dim sValue As String = BRApi.State.CreateSmartLink (si, smartlink)            
            Dim match = System.Text.RegularExpressions.Regex.Match (sValue,  "share/([A-Z0-9]
{32})")
Modern Browser Experience Guide 70Appendix D:Smart Link APIs
            
            BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters.SetLiteralParameterValue (si, False, "slid", 
match.Groups (1).Value)
            
            Dim result = New XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ()
            result.IsOK  = True
            result.ShowMessageBox  = True
            result.Message  = sValue
            Return result
        End Function
Retrieve  Smart  Link
Smart  Links  are stored  for a set period  of time.  Using  the following  business  rules,  developers  can 
retrieve  a stored  Smart  Link using  slid (Smart  Link ID)
C# Code  Snippet:
public XFSelectionChangedTaskResult  GetSmartLink (SessionInfo  si, BRGlobals  globals,  object 
api, DashboardExtenderArgs  args)
        {
            var id = BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters. GetLiteralParameterValue (si, false, 
"slid");
            
            var guidId = Guid.Parse(id);
            XFSmartLink  sValue = BRApi.State. GetSmartLink (si, true, guidId);
            var text = System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer. Serialize (sValue);
            
            var result = new XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ();
            result.IsOK  = true;
            result.ShowMessageBox  = true;
            result.Message  = text;
            return result;
        }
VB Code  Snippet: 
Public Function  GetSmartLink (ByVal si As SessionInfo,  ByVal globals As BRGlobals,  ByVal api 
As Object, ByVal args As DashboardExtenderArgs)  As XFSelectionChangedTaskResult
            Dim id = BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters.GetLiteralParameterValue (si, False, "slid")
            
            Dim guidId = Guid.Parse (id)
            Dim sValue As XFSmartLink  = BRApi.State.GetSmartLink (si, True, guidId)
Modern Browser Experience Guide 71Appendix D:Smart Link APIs
            Dim text = System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer.Serialize (sValue)
            
            Dim result = New XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ()
            result.IsOK  = True
            result.ShowMessageBox  = True
            result.Message  = text
            Return result
        End Function
Delete  Smart  Link
The following  business  rules  delete  stored  Smart  Links.
C# Code  Snippet:
public XFSelectionChangedTaskResult  DeleteSmartLink (SessionInfo  si, BRGlobals  globals,  
object api, DashboardExtenderArgs  args)
        {
            var id = BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters. GetLiteralParameterValue (si, false, 
"slid");        
            var guidId = Guid.Parse(id);
            
            BRApi.State. DeleteSmartLink (si, true, guidId);
            var text = "Deleted" ;
            
            var result = new XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ();
            result.IsOK  = true;
            result.ShowMessageBox  = true;
            result.Message  = text;
            return result;
        }
VB Code  Snippet:
    Public Function  DeleteSmartLink (ByVal si As SessionInfo,  ByVal globals As BRGlobals,  
ByVal api As Object, ByVal args As DashboardExtenderArgs)  As XFSelectionChangedTaskResult
            Dim id = BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters.GetLiteralParameterValue (si, False, "slid")            
            Dim guidId = Guid.Parse (id)
            
            BRApi.State.DeleteSmartLink (si, True, guidId)
            Dim text = "Deleted"
            
            Dim result = New XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ()
            result.IsOK  = True
Modern Browser Experience Guide 72Appendix D:Smart Link APIs
            result.ShowMessageBox  = True
            result.Message  = text
            Return result
        End Function
Modify  Smart  Link
The following  business  rules  are designed  to overwrite  an existing  Smart  Link while  retaining  its 
URL.  Since  modifying  a link overwrites  all stored  values,  all required  values  need  to be provided  
when  using  this rule.
C# Code  Snippet:
public XFSelectionChangedTaskResult  ModifySmartLink (SessionInfo  si, BRGlobals  globals,  
object api, DashboardExtenderArgs  args)
        {
            var id = BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters. GetLiteralParameterValue (si, false, 
"slid");
            var guidId = Guid.Parse(id);
            
            var smartlink  = new XFSmartLink ();    
            smartlink.IsSystemlevel  = true;
            smartlink.ExpirationDateUtc  = DateTime.UtcNow. AddHours (240);
 
            var dashboard  = new XFSmartLinkDashboard ();
            
            // Change values below to target different  applications/  Dashboards
            dashboard.ApplicationName  = "GolfStreamDemo_ v36";
            dashboard.DashboardName  = "Modified" ;
            dashboard.WorkspaceName  = "Default" ;
            dashboard.DashboardProfileName  = "Default" ;
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars  = new Dictionary< string, string>();
            
            // Add/ Remove the lines below to modify the custom subst vars that will be 
applied.
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars. Add("parameter1" , "test");
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars. Add("parameter2" , "value2" );            
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars. Add("parameter3" , "value3" );
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars. Add("parameter4" , "value4" );    
            
            smartlink.TargetObject  = dashboard;
            
            BRApi.State. ModifySmartLink (si, true, guidId, smartlink);
            
            var result = new XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ();
            result.IsOK  = true;
Modern Browser Experience Guide 73Appendix D:Smart Link APIs
            result.ShowMessageBox  = true;
            result.Message  = "Modified" ;
            return result;
        }
    }
}
VB Code  Snippet:
 
        Public Function  ModifySmartLink (ByVal si As SessionInfo,  ByVal globals As BRGlobals,  
ByVal api As Object, ByVal args As DashboardExtenderArgs)  As XFSelectionChangedTaskResult
            Dim id = BRApi.Dashboards.Parameters.GetLiteralParameterValue (si, False, "slid")
            Dim guidId = Guid.Parse (id)
            
            Dim smartlink  = New XFSmartLink ()
            smartlink.IsSystemlevel  = True
            smartlink.ExpirationDateUtc  = DateTime.UtcNow.AddHours (240)
            
            Dim dashboard  = New XFSmartLinkDashboard ()
            dashboard.ApplicationName  = "GolfStreamDemo_ v36"
            dashboard.DashboardName  = "Modified"
            dashboard.WorkspaceName  = "Default"
            dashboard.DashboardProfileName  = "Default"
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars  = New Dictionary (Of String, String)()
            
            ' Change values below to target different  applications/  Dashboards
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars.Add ("parameter1" , "test")
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars.Add ("parameter2" , "value2" )
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars.Add ("parameter3" , "value3" )
            dashboard.CustomSubstVars.Add ("parameter4" , "value4" )
            
            smartlink.TargetObject  = dashboard
            
            BRApi.State.ModifySmartLink (si, True, guidId, smartlink)
            
            Dim result = New XFSelectionChangedTaskResult ()
            result.IsOK  = True
            result.ShowMessageBox  = True
            result.Message  = "Modified"
            Return result
        End Function
    End Class
End Namespace
Modern Browser Experience Guide 74Appendix D:Smart Link APIs
Appendix  E: Component  Keyboard  
Controls
All Components
Modern Browser Experience Guide 75Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
BI Viewer  lTab and Shift  + Tab keys navigate  
between  the following  elements  in the 
Dashboard  layout:
 oDashboard  Title
 oTab Container  - Tab Page  Titles
 oGroups
 oDashboard  Items
 lWhen  you select  a dashboard  item,  press  
Enter  to switch  to interactive  mode.  This 
mode  allows  you to navigate  within  the 
item.
 lIn interactive  mode,  you can use the Tab 
and Shift  + Tab keys to navigate  through  
the title elements  and the dashboard  
element’s  content.
 lA user can use the following  keys to 
interact  with the Document  Viewer  
component:
 lTab (Shift+Tab)  navigates  between  
dashboard  layout  elements.  In Interactive  
mode,  navigates  within  a dashboard  item.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 76Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
 lEnter  switches  to Interactive  mode  when  
the focus  is on a dashboard  item and 
expands  or collapses  a panel  when  a 
button  is selected  in the Tab panel.
 lEsc or Escape  exits Interactive  mode.
Book  Viewer  lTab moves  the focus  to the next element.
 lShift + Tab moves  the focus  to the 
preceding  element.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  element.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the next page.
 lLeft arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the previous  page.
 lUp arrow  moves  the document  up.
 lDown  arrow  moves  the document  down.
Button  lSpace  clicks  the focused  button.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  button.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 77Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Chart  (Waterfall)  lLeft arrow  moves  the focus  to the left 
point  in the series.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the focus  to the right 
point  in the series.
 lUp arrow  moves  the focus  according  to 
the database  order.  Pressing  the Up 
arrow  key navigates  through  items  based  
on their order  in the database.
 lDown  arrow  moves  the focus  according  
to the database  order.  Pressing  the Down  
arrow  key navigates  through  items  based  
on their order  in the database.
Checkbox  lSpace  clicks  the focused  check  box.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  check  box.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 78Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Combo  Box  lAlt + Down  opens  the popup  element  
when  the component  is focused.
 lAlt + Up closes  the popup  element  if it is 
open.
 lEsc or Escape  closes  the popup  element  
if it is open.
 lUp arrow  moves  the focus  to the previous  
item in the list.
 lDown  arrow  moves  the focus  to the next 
item in the list.
 lHome  moves  the focus  to the first item in 
the list.
 lEnd moves  the focus  to the last item in 
the list.
 lEnter  selects  the currently  focused  item 
(for example,  if you are filtering  by typing  
this would  be the first item that matches  
the filter).
Modern Browser Experience Guide 79Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Cube  View  lTab moves  the focus  to the next cell in the 
row or the first cell in the next row.
 lShift  + Tab or Shift  + Right  arrow  
selects  the next cell in the row or the first 
cell in the next row.
 lShift  + Left arrow  selects  the preceding  
cell in the row or the last cell in the 
preceding  row.
 lShift  + Backspace  deselects  a cell from 
a group  of selected  cells.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the focus  to the next 
cell in the row or the first cell in the next 
row.
 lLeft arrow  moves  the focus  to the 
preceding  cell in the row or the last cell in 
the preceding  row.
 lUp arrow  moves  the focus  to the cell 
above  the selected  cell.
 lDown  arrow  moves  the focus  to the cell 
below  the selected  cell.
 lEnter  moves  the focus  to the cell below  
the selected  cell.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 80Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
 lShift  + F10 opens  the context  menu  from 
the tool bar.
 lMenu  opens  the context  menu  for the 
selected  cell.
 lF2 enables  edit mode  for the selected  
cell.
 lF4 moves  the focus  backwards  to the cell 
to the left of the currently  selected  cell. If 
you are at the first cell in a column  and 
there  are rows  above  the cell, F4 moves  
the focus  up one row and to the last cell in 
the farthest  right column.  If you are in the 
first cell of the grid, F4 moves  the focus  up 
to the tool bar to the context  menu.
 lEsc or Escape  exits edit mode  for the 
selected  cell.
Data  Explorer  Report  lTab moves  the focus  to the next element.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  element.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the next page.
 lLeft arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the previous  page.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 81Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Date  Selector  (Date  Input)  lAlt + Down  arrow  opens  the popup  with 
the calendar.
 lAlt + Up arrow  or Esc closes  the popup  
with the calendar.
 lUp arrow  increases  the value  of the date 
portion  that contains  the cursor.  Takes  the 
corresponding  Step into account.
 lDown  arrow  decreases  the value  of the 
date portion  that contains  the cursor.  
Takes  the corresponding  Step into 
account.
 lLeft arrow  moves  the cursor  one position  
to the left.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the cursor  one 
position  to the right.
 lDelete  or Backspace  deletes  the current  
date portion  that contains  the cursor.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 82Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Date  Selector  (Calendar)  lDown  Arrow  moves  the focus  to down  
cell, or navigates  the view if currently  
focused  date is in the last row of the 
current  view period.
 lUp Arrow  moves  the focus  to the upper  
cell, or navigates  the view if currently  
focused  date is at the top row of the 
current  view period.
 lLeft Arrow  moves  the focus  to previous  
cell.
 lRight  Arrow  moves  the focus  to next cell.
 lEnter  toggles  the current  date selection.
 lCtrl + Up Arrow  navigates  to the upper  
view (for example.,  from current  month  
days,  to the year).
 lCtrl + Down  Arrow  navigates  to the 
lower  view (for example,  from the months  
in the year to the days  of the month).
 lCtrl + Right  Arrow  navigates  to the next 
period.
 lCtrl + Left Arrow  navigates  to the 
previous  period.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 83Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
 lTab moves  the focus  between  the 
different  navigation  elements  - view 
selection,  previous/next  buttons,  today  
button,  and the grid with 
dates/months/years.
 lShift  + Tab moves  backwards  through  
thefocusable  elements.
 lHome  focuses  the first day of the month.
 lEnd focuses  the last day of the month.
Dialog  lArrow  Up / Arrow  Down  moves  the 
focus  between  the drawer  items.
 lEnter  selects  the focused  page.
File Viewer  lTab moves  the focus  to the next element.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  element.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the next page.
 lLeft arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the previous  page.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 84Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Gantt  View  lHome  moves  focus  to first task.
 lEnd moves  the focus  to the last task.
 lUp Arrow  moves  the focus  to previous  
task.
 lDown  Arrow  moves  the focus  to next 
task.
 lLeft Arrow  scrolls  the view to the left.
 lRight  Arrow  scrolls  the view to the right.
 lEnter  opens  the popup  edit form to 
provide  editing  of the task.
 lDelete  the task gets deleted.
 lAlt/Opt (Mac)  + Left Arrow  the task is 
collapsed,  if it contains  child tasks.
 lAlt/Opt (Mac)  + Right  Arrow  the task is 
expanded,  if it contains  child tasks.
Grid View  lSee Grid View  Controls .
Image  lTab moves  the focus  to the next image.
 lShift  + Tab moves  the focus  to the 
preceding  image
Modern Browser Experience Guide 85Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Label  lTab moves  the focus  to the next label.
 lShift  + Tab moves  the focus  to the 
preceding  label.
Large  Data  Pivot  Grid  lSee Pivot  Grid Controls .
Logo  lTab moves  the focus  to the next image.
 lShift  + Tab moves  the focus  to the 
preceding  image.
Map  lTab moves  the focus  to the next element.
 lShift  + Tab moves  the focus  to the 
preceding  element.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  element.
Menu  lEnter  opens  a menu  when  the menu  
button  has focus.
 lUp arrow  moves  the focus  up to the next 
menu  item.
 lDown  arrow  moves  the focus  down  to the 
next menu  item.
 lEsc or Escape  closes  the menu.
Pivot  Grid  lSee Pivot  Grid Controls .
Modern Browser Experience Guide 86Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Radio  Button  Group  lArrow  keys  move  the focus  to the next 
option  in the group.
Report  lTab moves  the focus  to the next element.
 lEnter  clicks  the focused  element.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the next page.
 lLeft arrow  moves  the paging  control  to 
the previous  page.
Text Box  lTab moves  the focus  into and out of the 
text box.
Toast  Notifications  lF9 closes  all notifications.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 87Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
Tree View  lUp arrow  goes  to the previous  tree node.
 lDown  arrow  goes  to the next tree node.
 lRight  arrow  expands  a collapsed  node.  If 
the node  is expanded,  focus  is moved  to 
its first child node.
 lLeft arrow  collapses  an expanded  node.  
If the node  is collapsed,  focus  is moved  to 
its parent.
 lHome  moves  the focus  to the first node  in 
the tree without  opening  or closing  a 
node.
 lEnd moves  the focus  to the last node  in 
the tree that is focusable  without  opening  
a node.
 lEnter  selects  the focused  tree view item 
when  the selection  mode  is Single  or 
Multiple . When  the selection  mode  is 
Multiple  and there  are other  selected  
items,  they get deselected.
 lCtrl + Enter  selects  focused  item.  When  
the item is already  selected,  it gets 
deselected.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 88Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Component Controls
 lShift  + Enter  when  Multiple  selection  is 
enabled,  perform  range  selection  from the 
previous  selected  item to the current  
selected  item.  Equivalent  to Shift+Click.
SQL Table  Editor  lSee Grid View  Controls .
 
Grid View  Controls
Toolbar  lRight  arrow  and Left arrow  moves  the focus  between  the toolbar  
focusable  elements.
 l Home  focuses  to the first focusable  element.
 lEnd focuses  to the last focusable  element.
Group  
Header lRight  arrow  and Left arrow  moves  the focus  between  the toolbar  
focusable  elements.
 l Home  focuses  to the first focusable  element.
 lEnd focuses  to the last focusable  element.
 lDelete  or Backspace  deletes  the grouping  for the focused  field 
name.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 89Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Pager  lEnter  changes  the focus  to the first focusable  Pager  element  when  
the Pager  wrapper  is focused.
 l Escape  changes  the focus  to the Pager  wrapper  when  an inner  
Pager  element  is focused.
 lTab changes  the focus  to the next Pager  element  when  an inner  
Pager  element  is focused.
 l Shift  + Tab changes  the focus  to the previous  Pager  element  when  
an inner  Pager  element  is focused.
 l Left Arrow  loads  the previous  page  (if it exists)  when  the Pager  
wrapper  is focused.
 lPage  Up loads  the previous  page  (if it exists)  when  the Pager  
wrapper  is focused.
 lRight  Arrow  loads  the previous  page  (if it exists)  when  the Pager  
wrapper  is focused.
 l Page  Down  loads  the previous  page  (if it exists)  when  the Pager  
wrapper  is focused.
 lHome  loads  the previous  page  (if the current  page  is not already  the 
first one) when  the Pager  wrapper  is focused.
 l End loads  the next page  (if the current  page  is not already  the last 
one) when  the Pager  wrapper  is focused.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 90Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
All Grid Cells  lRight  arrow  moves  the focus  one cell to the right (if any).
 l Left arrow  moves  the focus  one cell to the left (if any).
 lUp arrow  moves  the focus  one cell up (if any).
 lDown  arrow  moves  the focus  one cell down  (if any).
 l Home  moves  the focus  to the first cell in the row that contains  focus.
 l End moves  the focus  to the last cell in the row that contains  focus.
 lCtrl + Home  moves  the focus  to the first (top-left) data cell in the grid.
 l Ctrl + End moves  the focus  to the last cell in the last loaded  row of 
the Grid.
 lPage  Down  loads  and displays  the next page  of data.  If virtual  
scrolling  is used,  scrolls  one page  down.
 l Page  Up loads  and displays  the previous  page  of data.  If virtual  
scrolling  is used,  scrolls  one page  up.
 lShift  + Alt + B moves  the focus  to the first breadcrumb  menu.
NOTE:  Only applicable  when  the focus  is in grids  within  the 
Workflow  Steps.
 lShift  + Alt + W moves  the focus  to the first active  Workflow  State  
buttons.
NOTE:  Only applicable  when  the focus  is in grids  within  the 
Workflow  Steps.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 91Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Grid Data  
CellsAll Scenarios
 lEnter  when  the grid is in InCell  EditMode  - EditMode  is activated.  In 
hierarchy  cell - expands  /collapses  the detail  row. In grouping  cell - 
expands  /collapses  the group.  If the cell contains  a focusable  
element  - the focus  moves  to the first focusable  element  inside.
 l F2 enters  edit mode  when  the Grid is in InCell  EditMode.
 l Esc if the editor  is opened,  cancels  the edit and closes  the editor.  If 
the focus  is on an element  inside  a cell, returns  the focus  back  to the 
cell.
Row  Selection  Scenario
 l Space  selects  the row holding  the currently  focused  cell.
 lCtrl + Space  selects  or deselects  the current  row, while  persisting  
previously  selected  rows  (only  for selection  mode  "multiple").
 lShift  + Space  performs  range  selection,  selects  all the rows  between  
the last selected  one (with  Space  or mouse  click)  and the one holding  
the focused  cell.
 l Shift  + Up Arrow  selects  the row above.  When  multiple  selection  is 
enabled,  it extends  the selection  to that row.
 lShift  + Down  Arrow  Selects  the row below.  When  multiple  selection  
is enabled,  it extends  the selection  to that row.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 92Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Grid Header  
Cells lEnter  if sorting  is enabled,  sort is applied.
 lAlt + Arrow  Down  opens  the Column  menu  / Filter  menu  and moves  
the focus  to that menu.
 l Esc closes  Column  menu  / Filter  menu.
 lCtrl + Space  group/ungroup  the focused  column.
 lCtrl + Left Arrow  reorders  the column  with the one on its left.
 lCtrl + Right  Arrow  reorders  the column  with the one on its right.
Command  
Column  Cells lEnter  moves  the focus  inside  the command  column.  First button  is 
focused.  If a button  is focused,  it triggers  the button  action.
 lEsc if a button  is focused,  it returns  focus  to the command  cell.
 lTab moves  the focus  to the next button  in the column.
 lShift  + Tab moves  the focus  to the previous  button  in the column.
Inline  Edit 
Row lTab moves  to the next editor  in the row.
 l Esc cancels  the row edit. The focus  goes  to the command  cell from 
where  the row edit was triggered.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 93Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
In-cell Edit 
Cell lTab moves  to the next editor  in the row (closing  current  editor).  It 
skips  cells with Editable=false  and command  columns.  If the focus  is 
already  on the last editable  cell on the row, the focus  is moved  to the 
first editable  cell on the next row, and it's editor  is opened.  If you are 
already  on the last row of the grid, focus  remains  on the cell, with the 
editor  closed.
 lShift  + Tab moves  to the previous  editor  in the row (closing  current  
editor).  It skips  cells with Editable=false  and command  columns.  If 
the focus  is already  on the first editable  cell on the row, the focus  is 
moved  to the last editable  cell on the previous  row, and it's editor  is 
opened.  If you are already  on the first row of the grid, the focus  
remains  on the cell, with the editor  closed.
 lEnter  commits  changes  for the edited  item,  and moves  the focus  to 
the same  cell on the row below,  opening  it for edit.
 lEsc cancels  the edit. The focus  goes  to the current  cell.
Filter  Row  lArrow  Keys  moves  to the next editor  in the form.
 lEnter  enters  in the td and focuses  the first focusable  element  in it. All 
filter row components  gain tabindex=0.  The focus  remains  trapped  
inside  the filter row.
 l Tab goes  through  the filter row components.
 l Esc focus  goes  to the td element  wrapping  the currently  focused  
filter component.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 94Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Column  
Menu lAlt + Arrow  Down  when  the header  cell is focused,  it opens  the 
column  menu.
 l Arrow  Down  focuses  the next item in the column  menu.
 lArrow  Up focuses  the previous  item in the column  menu.
 lEnter  activates  the focused  action  in the column  menu.
 lSpace  toggles  a check  box menu  item (if focused).
 l Esc closes  the column  menu.  If the focus  is inside  a drop- down  
menuor  a filter,  closes  the drop- down  menu.
Filter  Menu  lAlt + Arrow  Down  when  a header  cell is focused,  it opens  the filter 
menu.
 lTab focuses  the next item in the filter menu.
 lShift  + Tab focuses  the previous  item in the filter menu.
 lEsc closes  the filter menu.  Note  that if a popup  inside  the menu  is 
currently  opened,  Escape  will close  it instead.  Pressing  Escape  a 
second  time will close  the menu.
 l Space  toggles  a check  box menu  item (if focused).
Group  Row  lEnter  expands/collapses  the row.
Detail  
Template  
Master  Row lEnter  expands/collapses  the row.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 95Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Checkbox  
Column lSpace  toggle  check  box. Toggling  the check  box selects/deselects  a 
row.
 l Esc returns  the focus  to the cell.
 
Pivot  Grid Controls
Toolbar  lTab moves  to the next active  option  in the toolbar.  If no active  elements  
present,  it moves  to the next active  element  in the browser  page.
 lShift  + Tab moves  to the previous  active  option  in the toolbar.  If no 
active  elements  present,  it moves  to the previous  active  element  in the 
browser  page.
 lEnter  performs  the selection  operation  of the current  active  element.
Field  List  lTab moves  to the next active  UI element.
 lShift  + Tab moves  to the previous  UI element.
 lEnter  selects  or deselects  a field in the All fields  section.
 lDown  arrow  moves  down  in the filter selection  section.
 lUp arrow  moves  up in the filter selection  section.
 lSpace  selects  or deselects  a field in the All fields  section.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 96Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls
Filter  
Dialog lTab moves  forward  through  filters.  Activates  the OK and Cancel  
buttons.
 lShift  + Tab moves  backwards  through  filters.  Activates  the OK and  
Cancel  buttons.
 l Down  arrow  moves  to the UI element  below.
 lUp arrow  moves  to the UI element  above.
 l Enter  selects  or deselects  a filter.  Activates  the OK and Cancel  
buttons.
 lSpace  selects  or deselects  a filter.  Activates  the OK and Cancel  
buttons.
Drill-
Through  
Dialog lTab moves  to the next active  element  in the drill-through  dialog.  If the 
current  active  element  is a Grid cell, it moves  the cell focus  to right side.
 l Shift  + Tab moves  to the previous  active  element  in the drill-through  
dialog.  If the current  active  element  is a Grid cell, it moves  the cell focus  
to left side.
 lDown  arrow  moves  the row/cell  focus  downward.
 l Up arrow  moves  the row/cell  focus  upward.
 l Left arrow  moves  the cell focus  to the left side.
 lRight  arrow  moves  the cell focus  to the right side.
 l End moves  to the bottom  of the drill down  section.
 l Ctrl + Home  scrolls  up.
 l Ctrl + End scrolls  down.
Modern Browser Experience Guide 97Appendix E:Component Keyboard Controls