OneStream  Sample  
Templates
PV600  SV100

Copyright  © 2025  OneStream  Software  LLC.  All rights  reserved.
Any warranty  with respect  to the software  or its functionality  will be expressly  given  in the 
Subscription  License  Agreement  or Software  License  and Services  Agreement  between  
OneStream  and the warrantee.  This document  does  not itself constitute  a representation  or 
warranty  with respect  to the software  or any related  matter.
OneStream  Software,  OneStream,  Extensible  Dimensionality,  and the OneStream  logo are 
trademarks  of OneStream  Software  LLC in the United  States  and other  countries.  Microsoft,  
Microsoft  Azure,  Microsoft  Office,  Windows,  Windows  Server,  Excel,  Internet  Information  
Services,  Windows  Communication  Foundation  and SQL Server  are registered  trademarks  or 
trademarks  of Microsoft  Corporation  in the United  States  and/or  other  countries.  DevExpress  is a 
registered  trademark  of Developer  Express,  Inc. Cisco  is a registered  trademark  of Cisco  
Systems,  Inc. Intel is a trademark  of Intel Corporation.  AMD64  is a trademark  of Advanced  Micro  
Devices,  Inc. Other  names  may be trademarks  of their respective  owners.
Table  of Contents
Using  Sample  Templates 1
Time  Profiles  Overview 2
Default  Dimensions  Overview 3
Simple  Currency  Cash  Flow  Overview 4
Simple  Single  Currency  Cash  Flow  Overview 5
US Entity  Dimension  Overview 6
Workflow  Import  Custom  Tables  Overview 7
Workflow  Templates 7
Custom  Table  Templates 7
Setup 8
Workflow  Excel  Import  Templates 8
Custom  Table  XL Templates 9
Security  Template  Overview 10
Setup 11
OneStream Sample Templates iTable ofContents
User  Security  Design 11
Data_ Certifier  Security  Design 11
WF Profile  Security  Design 12
Account  Security  Design 13
Import  Best Practices 13
Optimal  Display  Settings 14
Modifying  OneStream  Solutions 14
OneStream Sample Templates iiTable ofContents
Using  Sample  Templates
This guide  describes  the necessary  steps  to set up and use the OneStream  Sample  
Templates  Solution.  The package  contents  for the solution  is located  in the OneStream  
Solution  Exchange.  The templates  include:
 lTime  Profiles
 lDefault  Dimensions
 lSimple  Currency  Cash  Flow
 lSimple  Single  Currency  Cash  Flow
 lSecurity
 lUS Entity  Dimensions
 lWorkflow  Import/Custom  Tables
NOTE:  Excel  files imported  into custom  tables  need  to be modified  to match  
the table  definition  prior to importing.              
OneStream Sample Templates 1Using Sample Templates
Time  Profiles  Overview
The Time  Profiles  template  provides  a set of predetermined  templates  that include  twelve  
XML files each  containing  the metadata  for a different  fiscal  year.  This provides  a quick  
way to add Time  Profiles  for alternate  year- end definitions.
Time  Profiles  are configured  to set the calendar  to a Non- Standard  Fiscal  Year  End. This  
solution  only impacts  Months  and does  not affect  any other  application  properties. 
The Time  Profiles  zip file contains  twelve  XML files, each  including  the Time  Profile  
metadata  for a different  Fiscal  Year  End. Determine  the month  and year end needed  for 
the flow dimension  for a Customer  Application  and then extract  the appropriate  XML file 
from the OneStream  Sample  Templates  zip file.
To add the Application  Template:
 1. Log into the correct  application.
 2. Open  the Application  Load/Extract  screen.
 3. Import  the XML file.
These  profiles  can be assigned  to any cube  in your application.
OneStream Sample Templates 2Time Profiles Overview
Default  Dimensions  Overview
The Default  Map Templates  Solution  provides  a set of predefined  Pass  Through  
Dimension  Maps  for Entity,  Account,  Intercompany,  View,  User  Defined  Dimensions  1-8, 
and three  separate  Time  maps  (mmm/yyyy,  mm/yyyy,  and Pass  Through). Use these  to 
quickly  build  an application  or Proof  of Concept. Each  map type has separate  metadata  
files that can be imported,  which  saves  time when  creating  the Dimension.
The Default  Dimensions  Template  package  is a zip file containing  multiple  XML files, 
each  containing  the metadata  for a different  Dimension  mapping  (Entity,  IC, Time,  View,  
and UD1 – UD8).
To set up a default  dimension:
 1. Determine  the Dimension  where  the template  will be imported.
 2. Extract  the appropriate  XML file from the OneStream  Solution  Exchange  zip file.
 3. Log into the application  that contains  the Dimension  template.
 4. Open  the Application  Load/Extract  screen.
 5. Import  the XML file.
NOTE:  Import  individual  XML files only. Do  not import  the entire  zip file as 
this will result  in importing  all of the Transformation  Rules  that include  
multiple  time maps.
OneStream Sample Templates 3Default Dimensions Overview
Simple  Currency  Cash  Flow  Overview
The Simple  Currency  Cash  Flow  template  provides  a set of predetermined  Dimension  
templates  to build  a Flow  dimension  for a Customer  application  or proof  of concept. The  
main  use of this template  is for a customer  application  or proof  of concept  where  the 
customer  has multiple  currencies  and does  not need  detailed  information  on translation.
The Simple  Currency  Cash  Flow  Dimension  Template  Package  is a zip containing  one 
.XML  file.
To add this Dimension  template,  log into the correct  application,  open  the Application  
Load/Extract  screen  and import  the .XML  file.
To pull the Beginning  Balance  from the Prior  Scenario  instead  of the Current  Scenario,  
enter  the Prior  Scenario  name  into the Text 1 field of the Current  Scenario.
CAUTION:  Do not import  this file into an application  with an existing  Flow  
dimension  as conflicts  may occur.  Use this template  in a test environment  to 
rename  members  and update  formulas  as necessary.
OneStream Sample Templates 4Simple Currency Cash Flow Overview
Simple  Single  Currency  Cash  Flow  
Overview
This template  provides  a set of predetermined  Dimension  templates  that create  a Flow  
Dimension  in a Customer  Application  or Proof  of Concept  containing  one currency  and no 
translation. Typically  used  for a company  operating  in a single  country  without  foreign  
operations  outside  of their host country,  such  as a health  care company.
This template  provides  a set of predetermined  Dimension  templates  that create  a Flow  
Dimension  in a Customer  Application  or Proof  of Concept  containing  one currency  and no 
translation. 
To add the Dimension  Template:
 1. Log into the correct  application.
 2. Open  the Application  Load/Extract  screen.
 3. Import  the zip file.
To pull the Beginning  Balance  from the Prior  Scenario  rather  than the Current  Scenario,  
enter  the Prior  Scenario  name  into the Text 1 field of the Current  Scenario.
CAUTION:  Do not import  the zip file into an application  with an existing  Flow  
Dimension  as conflicts  may occur.  Use this template  in a test environment  to 
rename  members  and update  formulas  as needed.
OneStream Sample Templates 5Simple Single Currency Cash Flow Overview
US Entity  Dimension  Overview
Metadata  files and 50 US states  are provided  for the Entity  and User  Defined  1-8 
Dimensions. Import  these  files to save  time when  creating  a Dimension. Perform  these  
setup  tasks:
 1. Determine  which  Dimension  the States  Template  will be imported  into.
 2. Extract  the appropriate  XML file from the OneStream  Solution  Exchange  zip file.
 3. Log into the correct  application.
 4. Open  the Application  Load/Extract  screen.
 5. Import  the XML file.
OneStream Sample Templates 6USEntity Dimension Overview
Workflow  Import  Custom  Tables  
Overview
The Workflow  Import  Custom  Tables  are a set of predefined  sample  Excel  file templates  
for importing  data to the OneStream  Workflow  and custom  tables. The  Workflow  
templates  include  Cell Detail,  Forms,  Matrix  Forms,  and Journals. The  custom  table  
templates  include  a sample  table  creation  script  and the Excel  templates  needed  to load 
to the predefined  table.  See the following  sections:
 lWorkflow  Templates
 lCustom  Table  Templates
 lSetup
Workflow  Templates
The sample  Workflow  templates  allow  you to import  Excel  files for Cell Detail,  Forms,  
Matrix  Forms,  and Journals.
Custom  Table  Templates
The sample  custom  table  templates  contain  Excel  files to import  multiple  methods  into a 
custom  table.  The Sample  Employee  Table  Script  creates  the custom  table  that is used  
with the provided  Excel  templates.
OneStream Sample Templates 7Workflow Import Custom Tables Overview
Setup
The zip file is not imported  into OneStream  directly. It  should  be downloaded  to your PC in 
order  to update  the desired  sample  template. After  the template  is updated,  it can be 
imported  into OneStream  via the Workflow  or loaded  to a custom  table.
Details  on each  template  and field can be found  in the OneStream  Design  and Reference  
Guide  under  Loading Data  via Excel  Templates  or CSV in Chapter  3: Data  Collection  
Guides.
Workflow  Excel  Import  Templates
There  are a variety  of import  templates  you can use with Excel.  The follow  sections  
describe  the benefits  and usage  of each  template.
Cell Detail  Import  Template
Import  Cell Detail  information  to a specific  intersection  in OneStream. Header  Rows  
specify  the location  to which  the Cell Detail  is loaded. Data  Rows  contain  the Cell Detail  
amount  and additional  information  to import  to the specified  location.
Form  Import  Template
Import  Form  information  to a specific  intersection  in OneStream. Header  Rows  specify  
the location  to which  the Form  data is loaded. Data  Rows  contain  the Form  amount  and 
details  to import  to the specified  location.
Form  Matrix  Import  Template
Import  Form  information  to a specific  intersection  in OneStream.  Header  Rows  specify  
the location  to which  the Form  data is loaded. Data  Rows  contain  the Form  amount  and 
OneStream Sample Templates 8Workflow Import Custom Tables Overview
details  to import  to the specified  location. Matrix  forms  can only be used  to matrix  on up to 
three  dimensions.
Journal  Import  Template
Import  Journal  information  to a specific  intersection  in OneStream.  Header  Rows  specify  
the location  to which  the Journal  data is loaded. Data  Rows  contain  the Journal  amount  
and details  to import  to the specified  location.
Custom  Table  XL Templates
Modify  Excel  files that you will import  into custom  tables  before  importing  them.
OneStream Sample Templates 9Workflow Import Custom Tables Overview
Security  Template  Overview
The template  provides  a mechanism  to develop  User,  Entity,  and Workflow  security  in a 
central  location.  When  the security  design  is completed,  the User  Security  Design  tab, 
WF Profile  Security  Design  tab, and Entity  Security  tab all have  an XML builder  that builds  
the XML according  to the OneStream  XML configuration.  This provides  extract  loads  of 
the User,  Workflow,  and Entity  security  into the OneStream  Framework.  The .xlsx 
Security  template  contains  the following  design  tabs:
 lUser  Security  Design  – Contains  XML builder  code
 lWF Load- Certify  Security  – Centralizes  who loads  and certifies  data per Workflow  
and per Entity.  Used  to develop  WF Profile  Security  Design.  No XML builder  code.
 lWF Profile  Security  Design  – Contains  XML builder  code.
 lEntity  Security  Design  – Contains  XML builder  code.
 lAccount  Security  Design  – Centralizes  a more  granular  level of account  security  
and specifies  who should  have  access  to certain  accounts.  No XML builder  code.
The tab order  determines  the flow in which  processes  are designed.  See these  sections  
for information  about  using  this template:
 lSetup
 lUser  Security  Design
 lImport  Best Practices
 lOptimal  Display  Settings
 lModifying  OneStream  Solution s
OneStream Sample Templates 10Security Template Overview
Setup
There  are certain  dependencies  when  developing  the security  matrix.  
Load  these  items  in the following  order:
 1. Load  users  as they are assigned  to Workflow  Security.
 2. Load  Workflow  Security.
 3. Load  Entity  Security.
User  Security  Design
 1. Enter information  for Users.  Columns  A and B are required.
 2. Copy  the formulas  in Column  G down  the rows  as needed.
 3. Copy  the XML content  of column  G into Notepad  as a .XML  file. Make  sure the 
header  and footer  match.
 4. Import  the file into the application and  confirm  the users  are visible.
Data_ Certifier  Security  Design
This template  organizes  entities  into Workflows  and then identifies  which  users  load data 
and which  users  certify  data for each  Workflow.
 1. In the Entity  field,  define  all Entities  that submit  and report  data.
 2. In the Workflow  field,  add the Workflow  Name , which  identifies  which  Workflow  is 
responsible  for loading  data for the respective  Entity.
OneStream Sample Templates 11Security Template Overview
 3. For each  Entity/Workflow  combination,  define  the users  who will load and certify  
data.
WF Profile  Security  Design
 1. In Column  A, define  the Workflows  that need  Workflow  security  groups.
 2. In Column  B, define  the naming  convention  of the Workflow  security  groups.
 3. Enter  the appropriate  users  and groups  for the Workflows.  
 4. Copy  XML from column  AH to an .XML  file and load it into the application.
Entity  Security  Design
 1. In Column  A, define  the Entities.
 2. In Column  B, define  the naming  convention  for the Entity  Read  and Read/Write  
Security  Group.
 3. In Column  C, add the description  of the Entity  Security  Groups.
 4. For the Child  columns,  enter  either  the User  or Group  assigned  to the Entity  Read  or 
Read  Write  Security  Group.
Read  Only Example:  For the Entity  Read  Security  Group,  enter  the users  who 
require  access  but do not have  access  to the Entity  through  a Workflow.  If a user 
does  not load data but has workflow  responsibility  through  a Review  Workflow,  then 
assign  the Review  Workflow  Data  Execution  group  or Review  Workflow  Access  
Group  to the Entity  Read  Security  Group.
Read/Write  Example:  For the Entity  Read  Write  Security  Group,  assign  the 
Workflow  Data
OneStream Sample Templates 12Security Template Overview
Execution  Groups  to the Entity  Read  Write  Group.  By gaining  access  to the 
Workflow  Data  Execution  Group,  you would  then have  access  to the Entity  Read  
Write  Security  Group  for data loading.  Maintenance  of user data loading  is then 
controlled  by which  workflows  they are allowed  access  to.
It is recommended  to start from the top of the Entity  Hierarchy  and continue  toward  
the bottom.  Create  the Entity  Security  Group  prior to assigning  it to other  Entity  
Security  Groups.
5. Copy  XML from column  AS to a text file and load to the application.
Account  Security  Design
There  is no Read  or Read- Write  security  with Account  members.  To access  Account  
security,  go to  Cubes  > Data  Access  This is known  as slice security.
The Account  Security  Design  allows  organization  for accounts  that require  security  and 
users  who have  access  to them.  There  is currently  no XML builder.
Import  Best  Practices
 lImport  individual  XML files only.
 lDo not import  XML files into an application  with an existing  Flow  Dimension  as 
conflicts  may occur.  Use the templates  in a test environment  to rename  members  
and update  formulas  as necessary.
 lFor Time  Profiles  templates,  determine  the month  and year end needed  for the 
application  or proof  of concept  and then extract  the appropriate  .XML  file.
OneStream Sample Templates 13Security Template Overview
 lFor Simple  Currency  Cash  Flow  templates,  to pull the Beginning  Balance  from 
the Prior  Scenario  instead  of the Current  Scenario,  enter  the Prior  Scenario  name  
into the Text 1 field of the Current  Scenario.
 lFor Simple  Single  Currency  Cash  Flow  templates,  to pull the Beginning  Balance  
from the Prior  Scenario  instead  of the Current  Scenario,  enter  the Prior  Scenario  
name  into the Text 1 field of the Current  Scenario.
Optimal  Display  Settings
OneStream  Platform  and Solutions  frequently  require  the display  of multiple  data 
elements  for proper  data entry  and analysis.
The recommended  screen  resolution  is a minimum  of 1920  x 1080  for optimal  rendering  
of forms  and reports.
Modifying  OneStream  Solution s
A few cautions  and disclaimers  when  modifying  a OneStream  Solution s:
 lMajor  changes  to Business  Rules  or custom  tables  within  a OneStream  Solution  will 
not be supported  through  normal  channels  as the resulting  solution  is significantly  
different  from the core solution.
 lIf changes  are made  to any Dashboard  object  or Business  Rule,  consider  renaming  
it or copying  it to a new object  first. This is important  because  if there  is an upgrade  
to the OneStream  Solution  in the future  and the customer  applies  the upgrade,  this 
will overlay  and delete  the changes.  This also applies  when  updating  any of the 
standard  reports  and Dashboards.
OneStream Sample Templates 14Security Template Overview
 lIf modifications  are made  to a OneStream  Solution , upgrading  to later versions  will 
be more  complex  depending  on the degree  of customization.  Simple  changes  such  
as changing  a logo or colors  on a Dashboard  do not impact  upgrades  significantly.  
Do not make  changes  to the custom  database  tables  and Business  Rules.
OneStream Sample Templates 15Security Template Overview